



        WHY ARE THERE SO FEW FEMALE COMPUTER

                    SCIENTISTS?


               (C) 1991 Ellen Spertus



                     Abstract


Women pursue education and careers in computer science far
less frequently than men do.  In 1990, only 13% of PhDs in
computer science went to women, and only 7.8% of computer
science professors were female. Additionally, the percentage of
female computer science students appears to be increasing at
only a slow rate or even decreasing.  Apart from ethical con-
cerns at women's lack of participation in computer science, the
demographics of the country are such that the United States
will not have enough engineers and scientists unless underrep-
resented groups increase their participation.  This report ex-
amines the influences against a woman's pursuing a career in
a technical field, particularly computer science.  Such factors
include the different ways in which boys and girls are raised,
the stereotypes of female engineers, subtle biases that females
face, problems resulting from working in predominantly male
environments, and sexual biases in language. Finally, I discuss
effective and ineffective ways to encourage women. A theme of
the report is that women's underrepresentation is not primarily
due to direct discrimination but to subconscious behavior that
tends to perpetuate the status quo.



This report is MIT Artificial Intelligence Laboratory Technical
Report 1315.




Introduction



Only a small percentage of computer scientists and computer
professionals are female.  In the most recent years for which
statistics are available, women received a third of the bach-
elor's degrees in computer science, 27% of master's degrees,
and 13% of PhDs.  Not only do women make up just 7.8%
of computer science and computer engineering faculties, only
2.7% of tenured professors are female [Frenkel 1990, page 38]
[Gries et al 1991]. Even worse, these numbers seem to be im-
proving only very slowly or even dropping [Leveson 1989, page
3].  Many girls are still steered away from math and science
or choose not to pursue careers in these fields.  Additionally,
many women who go into computer science are conscious of
being treated differently from men or feel that they face addi-
tional barriers. This report describes some of these barriers.
   As someone who has loved math and computers ever since
I was a little girl, I have always found it strange that so few
females share these interests. At the computer camp I attended,
the boy-girl ratio was six to one. It was similar at high school
math club and the math summer program I attended. At MIT,
only about 20% of the computer science undergraduates are
female, while other departments, such as biology, are at least
50% female. I researched this report to explore why females so
consistently stay away from computer science, why people of
both sexes seem to expect less from women, and why a woman
is considered unfeminine if she is an engineer. Because math
and computer programming came easily to me and to many
other women who have had the opportunities, women clearly
are not inherently unable to do well in them.  Instead, girls
and women are choosing, consciously or subconsciously, not to
go into or stay in computer science.  While one cannot rule
out the possibility of some innate neurological or psychological
differences that would make women less (or more) likely to excel
in computer science, I found that the cultural biases against



                          i




women's pursuing such careers are so large that, even if inherent
differences exist, they would not explain the entire gap. In this
paper, I describe the biases that women face in pursuing careers
in computer science and how they deal with them.



Organization


My report examines the following topics, each occupying a
chapter:


  1. Societal pressure against women's being successful, par-
     ticularly in engineering.


  2. Ways in which the male-dominated environments discour-
     age women.


  3. Inequalities in language, their causes and effects.


  4. Negative consequences of some attempts to help women.


  5. Conclusions and recommendations.


At the end of the report are appendices which contain addi-
tional information, such as the methods I used for data collec-
tion and implications of recent research on sex-based intellec-
tual differences. Finally, there is an annotated bibliography.
   The report does not directly address the problems of racial
minority group members, such as blacks and hispanics, who
are also underrepresented in computer science. Readers should
not interpret my lack of material on this subject as implying
that no bias exists against these groups.  On the contrary, I
have been told by a black female computer scientist that the
color barrier is greater than the sex barrier.  In many parts
of this report, such as Section 1.2.1 on subconscious bias, the
experience of people of color is analogous to that of women.
   Readers are welcome to contact the author with questions or
comments. To do so, send electronic mail to ellens@ai.mit.edu
or use the following address:


     Room 630
     545 Technology Square
     Cambridge, MA 02139



                          ii




Acknowledgments


Because many contributors wished to remain anonymous, I can-
not thank them by name. I am pleased, however, to have this
opportunity to acknowledge Prof. Sherry Turkle, who encour-
aged me and supervised the early stages of this project, and
my friend Nate Osgood for his support and thoughtful com-
ments.  Additionally, I am grateful to Dr. Vicki Almstrum,
Danielle Bernstein, Joost Bonsen, David Chaiken, Prof. Judy
Goldsmith, Prof. Eric Grimson, Dana Henry, Magdalena Leuca,
Prof. Barbara Liskov, Prof. Nancy Leveson, Dr. Fanya Mon-
talvo, Philip Spertus, Prof. Lynn Stein, Becky Thomas, Chris-
tine Tsien, Dr. Kim Wallen, Janet Wixson, Liz Wolf, and Mary
Ellen Zurko for their comments on earlier versions of this pa-
per.  I am also grateful to Dr. Anita Borg for managing an
electronic mailing list of female computer scientists and to the
women on the list who have helped and encouraged me. Finally,
I want to express my appreciation of the many students, staff,
and professors at MIT, particularly in Electrical Engineering
and Computer Science, who have been wonderfully support-
ive of this work, especially EECS department head Prof. Paul
Penfield, CS head Prof. Fernando Corbato, MIT ombudsper-
son Prof. Mary Rowe, and EECS administrator Marilyn Pierce.
Part of this work was done while I was receiving financial sup-
port through a NSF graduate fellowship.



                         iii




iv




Contents



1  Societal Factors                                 1
   1.1 Stereotyping : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :  2
       1.1.1 Background  : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :  2
       1.1.2 Bias in Children's Toys and Computer
             Games  : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :  3
       1.1.3 Stereotypes of Boys and Girls  : : : : : : :  6
       1.1.4 The Effects of Stereotypes on Teachers
             and Advisors  : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :  9
   1.2 Ways that Males and Females are Treated Dif-
       ferently   : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 11
       1.2.1 Subtle Bias  : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 11
       1.2.2 Different Expectations for Men and Women 15
       1.2.3 Different Standards for Men and Women   17
       1.2.4 Career-Related Success Unfeminine : : : : 19
       1.2.5 Implications of Gender Double Standards  21
       1.2.6 Specific Stereotypes Against Female En-
             gineers : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 22
   1.3 Summary  : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 24


2  The Masculine Environment                    27
   2.1 Sexist or Sexual Humor  : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 27
   2.2 Sexual Displays and Discussions   : : : : : : : : : 29
       2.2.1 Different Reactions  : : : : : : : : : : : : : 29
       2.2.2 Attempts at Changing Behavior   : : : : : 31
   2.3 Behavior Due to Sex-Correlated Differences  : : : 32
       2.3.1 Socializing with Co-workers  : : : : : : : : 32
       2.3.2 Different Communication Styles : : : : : : 34
   2.4 Finding a Mentor  : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 37
   2.5 Behavior Specific to Technical Events   : : : : : : 38
       2.5.1 Trade Shows   : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 38
       2.5.2 Technical Conferences  : : : : : : : : : : : 39
   2.6 Different Priorities  : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 40



                         v




       2.6.1 Family Life  : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 40
       2.6.2 The Hacker Culture  : : : : : : : : : : : : 42
   2.7 Sexual Harassment  : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 44
   2.8 Summary  : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 45


3  Gender in Language                            47
   3.1 Referring to Unknown People  : : : : : : : : : : : 48
   3.2 Masculine Terms as Default  : : : : : : : : : : : : 51
       3.2.1 The Inequality of Masculine and Femi-
             nine Terms  : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 51
       3.2.2 Intentional Use of Masculine Terms : : : : 52
       3.2.3 Unintentional Use of Masculine Terms  : : 54
   3.3 Gender-Neutral English  : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 54
       3.3.1 Background  : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 54
       3.3.2 Examples of Usage in Transition  : : : : : 56
       3.3.3 Reversed-Expectation Writing : : : : : : : 57
       3.3.4 Reactions to Nontraditional Language  : : 58
       3.3.5 Summary  : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 60
   3.4 Summary  : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 60


4  Problems with Solutions                        61
   4.1 The Perception of Lowered Qualifications  : : : : 61
       4.1.1 The Need for Affirmative Action  : : : : : 62
       4.1.2 Distrust of Qualifications  : : : : : : : : : 63
       4.1.3 Low Self-Confidence  : : : : : : : : : : : : 64
       4.1.4 Uncritical Faith in Test Scores  : : : : : : 65
       4.1.5 Conclusion   : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 65
   4.2 Informal Special Treatment Harmful  : : : : : : : 66
   4.3 Special Awards for Women   : : : : : : : : : : : : 68
       4.3.1 Separate Categories for Males and Females 68
       4.3.2 Fellowships for Women : : : : : : : : : : : 69
       4.3.3 "Heck, We Want More Girls"  : : : : : : : 71
   4.4 Bad Consequences of Raising Consciousness  : : : 73
       4.4.1 Female Hypersensitivity  : : : : : : : : : : 73
       4.4.2 Male Hypersensitivity  : : : : : : : : : : : 74
   4.5 Summary  : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 75


5  Recommendations and Conclusions             77
   5.1 Recommendations   : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 78
       5.1.1 Programs and Policies to Encourage Women 78
       5.1.2 Ways for Women to Build Self Image : : : 80
       5.1.3 Ways for Women to React to Biased Be-
             havior  : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 82
       5.1.4 Ways for Individuals to Encourage Women 88



                         vi




       5.1.5 Discussion : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 91
   5.2 Conclusions  : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 91


A  About This Paper                              93
   A.1 Data Collection Methods   : : : : : : : : : : : : : 93
   A.2 The History of the Document  : : : : : : : : : : : 95
   A.3 MIT  : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 96
   A.4 How to Obtain Additional Copies : : : : : : : : : 97


B  Sex-Based Intellectual Differences               99


C  Advantages for Women                        103



                         vii




viii




Chapter  1



SOCIETAL  FACTORS



    Women beware.  You are on the brink of destruc-
    tion:  You have hitherto been engaged in crushing
    your waists; now you are attempting to cultivate
    your mind: You have been merely dancing all night
    in the foul air of the ball-room; now you are be-
    ginning to spend your mornings in study. You have
    been incessantly stimulating your emotions with con-
    certs and operas, with French plays, and French
    novels; now you are exerting your understanding
    to learn Greek, and solve propositions in Euclid.
    Beware!! Science pronounces that the woman who
    studies is lost --- R. R. Coleman, M.D., 1889.[1]


   In this chapter, I will describe various ways in which women
are steered away from professional success, particularly in tra-
ditionally male fields such as engineering.[2] Girls and women are
subject to societal pressure to stay away from such subjects or
to accept themselves as "unfeminine". Academically successful
_____________________
1. Coleman, R. "Woman's Relations to the Higher Education and Pro-
fessions, as Viewed from Physiological and Other Standpoints." Trans-
actions, Medical Association of Alabama (1889), page 238.  Quoted in
[Ehrenreich et al 1978, page 128].
2. Readers outside of the field may be confused by my use of the term
"engineer" to include computer scientists. I do this because the field of
computer science does not fit neatly into either engineering or science. 
Despite the "science" in the name, university computer science departments
are often attached to electrical engineering departments or are part of the
school of engineering. Additionally, computer programmers and designers
tend to think of themselves more as engineers than as scientists, although
some individuals and organizations consider computer science as a branch
of the mathematical sciences.



                         1




women are generally seen as being less attractive and less happy
than less highly-achieving women.[3] Additionally, there are still
people who believe, consciously or subconsciously, that women
are incapable of being top scientists and who take women less
seriously in general.



1.1    Stereotyping


1.1.1   Background

Currently, most people in positions of power and respect are
male. Men are rhetorically asked in [Sandler 1986, page 3]:


     Imagine that your lawyer, your doctor, your priest,
     rabbi, or minister, your Senator and Representa-
     tive, your mayor, the president of your institution,
     most of its trustees, almost all of the deans and most
     of your colleagues were all women. How would you
     feel?


Not only are these positions held by men, but the media propa-
gate stereotypes of women. A recent study found that "women
are often still depicted on television as half-clad and half-witted,
and needing to be rescued by quick-thinking, fully clothed men"
[Adelson 1990]. Whether or not people realize it, many of their
expectations of men and women are based on what they have
observed and by what messages their culture presents. As one
Usenet [4] reader wrote:


        This group [comp.society] has been discussing
     various stereotypes for a long time now. The prob-
     lem is that we haven't acknowledged the impor-
     tance of stereotypes to human cognition. We could
     easily call stereotypes heuristics.  A heuristic is a
     device that allows a processor to use some sort of
     knowledge to reduce a search. In very rough terms,
     stereotypes allow the wetware in our heads to do
     less search when looking for evaluations of people
     and behaviors to events.
_____________________
3. Of course, the stereotype also exists of male engineers being less at-
tractive than other males. See, for example, [Wolpert et al 1988, page 2],
[Turkle 1984, Chapter 6], and [Holland 1990, pages 164-165].
4. Usenet, a large electronic bulletin board system, is described in the
appendix on methods.



                          2




       The human brain is the best known implemen-
    tation of these heuristics. In fact the human brain is
    so reliant upon heuristics, that when presented in-
    formation that contradicts such a heuristic we feel
    confusion and discomfort.
       So where is all this going? For better or worse,
    humans will continue to make stereotypes based on
    input from their environment.  Since the average
    person rarely meets programmers, and the only pro-
    grammers that people see are male geek actors on
    the TV, we will still have the geek image.  I have
    to admit, most programmers I know are not ex-
    jocks.  Most programmers I know are male, have
    interests in math and the insides of computers and
    will allow their personal appearance to slip during
    those wonderful, coffee-filled, marathon program-
    ming sessions. See, I have the disease too. (disease
    = stereotype) [5]


I believe that the author of the message is unusual not in hav-
ing biases but in being aware of them. It has been empirically
shown, as will be described in the following sections, that many
people expect less of females without realizing it. These stereo-
types are not as harmless as the author implies however, as they
sometimes impair people from seeing past the stereotypes. Ad-
ditionally, people tend to live up or down to the expectations
that are communicated to them.



1.1.2   Bias in Children's Toys and Computer

        Games

The social biases that influence females begin in childhood,
where boys and girls are often treated differently on the basis
of sexual stereotypes.  From the earliest ages, girls are given
different types of toys than boys.  For example, one study of
children from one to six years of age found:


    Boys had more vehicles, toy animals, military toys,
    educational-art materials, sports equipment, and
    spatial-temporal objects. On the other hand, girls
    had more dolls, doll houses, and domestic objects
    [Rheingold et al 1975].
_____________________
5. Katz, Douglas J. Comp.society, May 14, 1990.



                         3




The difference in toys cannot be explained purely by the chil-
dren's preferences --- the expectations of parents and other gift
givers play a major role. Numerous studies, cited in [Pomerleau et 
al 1990, page 360] have found:


     When interacting with an infant who was intro-
     duced as a girl, adults used feminine toys (for in-
     stance, a doll) and talked more to `her'. When the
     infant was presented as a boy, they used masculine
     toys (e.g., a hammer) and encouraged more motor
     activity.


   These stereotypes are perpetuated by toy companies, which
market toys in a stereotyped manner. A 1969 Life ad contained:


     Because girls dream about being a ballerina, Mattel
     makes Dancerina ...  a pink confection in a silken
     blouse and ruffled tutu ...  Barbie, a young fash-
     ion model, and her friends do the `in' things girls
     should do --- talk about new places to visit, new
     clothes to wear and new friends to meet.... Because
     boys were born to build and learn, Mattel makes
     Tog'l [a set of blocks for creative play].... Because
     boys are curious about things big and small, Mattel
     makes SuperEyes, a telescope that boys can have in
     one ingenious set of optically engineered lenses and
     scopes [Komisar 1972, page 305].


While such an ad would not appear today, it indicates the en-
vironment in which today's young scientists were raised.
   As recently as 1985, a study found:


     [T]he content of toy catalogues and the pictures of
     children on the packages of toys are still strongly
     stereotyped.  In catalogues and in stores, special
     sections are reserved for sex-stereotyped toys. Girls'
     sections contain dolls and accessories, doll houses,
     arts and crafts kits, toy beauty sets, and housekeep-
     ing and cooking toys. Building sets, sports-related
     toys, transportation toys, workbenches and tools
     are featured in the boys sections ([Schwartz et al
     1985] in [Pomerleau et al 1990, page 365]).


   In addition to marketing toys in a stereotyped manner, such
factors influence the design of toys. It was reported that:



                          4




    Jaron Lanier, head of VPL, gave a talk at UIST
    in 1989 about his experience productizing the data
    glove for Nintendo games....[H]e said that [the] toy
    manufacturer was very strictly divided from the very
    highest levels into the girl's toy division and the
    boy's toy division.  He strongly resisted the glove
    from becoming either a girls' toy or a boys' toy, but
    he lost. He said that they immediately categorized
    it as a boys' toy and put all kinds of black Darth-
    Vader-ish, sports-car-like paraphernalia all over it
    to make it appeal to boys. He also said, had it been
    categorized as a girl's toy, it probably would have
    been pink and frilly.

Not only are there differences in varieties of "old-fashioned"
toys given to children, but these biases are carrying over into
the realm of computerized toys and games.  These games are
both based on traditionally male interests, such as war and
sports, and are marketed toward boys. [Kiesler et al 1985, pages
456-457] reports:

    On one rack [in a computer store], covers in comic-
    book style depicted such games as Olympic De-
    cathlon (4 male athletes on cover), Cannonball Blitz
    (3 men in battle), Swashbuckler (9 male pirates),
    Thief (1 male detective), Alien Typhoon (1 male
    space explorer) and Money Munchers (1 man in a
    suit). In all, 28 men and 4 women were illustrated
    on the covers.  The women were on the covers of
    Monopoly (2 men and 2 women playing the game),
    Palace in Thunderland (1 very fat queen), and Wiz-
    ard and the Princess (1 wizard standing, 1 princess
    in supplicating position on floor).

Girls' lesser usage of computer games could be a factor in their
being less positively disposed toward computers and in their
lack of interest in computer courses [Lockheed 1985, page 118],
particularly as students who have played computer games are
more likely to do well in their first college computing course
[Kiesler et al 1985, page 457].
   It should be noted that nobody with whom I have spoken
proposes that a conspiracy exists among manufacturers and
advertisers to keep females in their place. Rather, companies
aim their products at the largest segment of the population that
is predisposed to use them.  Additionally, females are more



                         5




willing to buy products advertised for males than vice versa
[Courtney et al 1983].



1.1.3   Stereotypes of Boys and Girls

Anecdotal evidence suggests that when an infant is dressed in
blue, passers-by say how smart he looks; if the same baby is
dressed in pink, people say how pretty she is. Boys' clothing
is often decorated with cars and trains; girls' clothing rarely is.
More rigorously, numerous studies of sex stereotyping of infants
are reviewed in [Stern et al 1989], including:

     Parents in one study, for example, were asked to
     rate and describe their newborns shortly after birth
     when the primary source of information about the
     baby was his or her gender (Rubin et al., 1974). Al-
     though the infants did not differ on any objective
     measures, girls were rated as littler, softer, finer
     featured, and more inattentive than boys.  Other
     studies have revealed that parents treat male and
     female infants differently.... Fagot (1978) observed
     that parents of toddlers reacted differently to boys'
     and girls' behaviors. Parents responded more pos-
     itively to girls than boys when the toddlers played
     with dolls, and more critically to girls than boys
     when the toddlers engaged in large motor activity
     [Stern et al 1989, page 502].

Expecting different behavior from boys and girls can be a self-
fulfilling prophecy: If one sort of behavior is expected and en-
couraged, the child will be more likely to continue it.
   Children also have been shown to have formed sexual stereo-
types as early as at two years old [Weinraub et al 1983, page
33]. For example,

     Preschool children also have a good grasp of adult-
     validated sex-stereotyped beliefs about children's
     behavior.  When asked in an interview-like situa-
     tion which of two paper dolls --- `Michael' or `Lisa'
     --- would like to do certain activities in nursery
     school, end up in certain future roles, and have cer-
     tain character traits, children 2- to 3-years old
     showed an impressive depth of knowledge (Kuhn,
     Nash, & Brucken, 1978). Children believe that girls
     like to play with dolls, help mother, cook dinner,



                          6




    clean house, talk a lot, never hit, and say `I need
    some help'; they also believe that boys like to play
    with cars, help father, build things, and say `I can
    hit you' [Weinraub et al 1983, page 34].

The careers that children imagine for males and females are
influenced by sex stereotypes. By the age of three years, most
children "know that girls will grow up to clean the house, be
a nurse, or be a teacher, and boys will grow up to `be boss'"
[Weinraub et al 1983, page 38].  These stereotypes affect the
careers that children picture for themselves:

    Even preschool children express future aspirations
    along sex-stereotyped lines. Both preschool and el-
    ementary school girls choose a parenting role sig-
    nificantly more often than boys (Looft, 1971; Von-
    dracek & Kirchner, 1974).  In addition, the range
    of occupational choice is more restricted for girls,
    with nurse and teacher being the most popular an-
    swers (Vondracek and Kirchner, 1974; Beuf, 1974).
    Boys' choices include more action oriented occu-
    pations (police officer, sports superstar) and more
    prestigious careers (doctor, public servant, pilot).

    Taking the question one step further, Beuf (1974)
    asked children 3 to 6 years of age what they would
    do if they were of the other sex.  Approximately
    70 percent of the children replied with a job con-
    sidered appropriate for the imagined sex.  More
    interestingly, boys frequently imagined themselves
    as nurses and girls imagined themselves as doctors
    when asked, `What if you were a girl (boy)?' Sev-
    eral girls confided that they really would prefer to be
    doctors rather than nurses when they grew up, but
    couldn't because they were girls [Weinraub et al 1983,
    page 44].

Thus, from an early age, girls and boys learn to think of most
careers as being appropriate for either men or women but not
both. This will influence not just their career choice but how
they view males and females aspiring to "inappropriate" roles.
   Unfortunately, these stereotypes are so pervasive that it is
difficult for unprejudiced parents to prevent their children from
accepting the stereotypes:

   oA female computer scientist told me:



                         7




            We ... have a rather non-traditional house-
         hold, and I'm surprised at how traditional my
         two daughters seem to be turning out.
            Both my husband and I work full-time, but
         when we are home, [John] does almost all the
         cooking (I make a meal maybe once every three
         weeks), he cleans up after himself while cook-
         ing so I don't do much of the cleaning in the
         kitchen, I do the laundry (sometimes), and we
         let everything else go until a friend comes to
         clean our house and dig us out from under the
         laundry I never can seem to get to....
            [Once,] I asked my 5-year-old who did most
         of the work around the house, me or her daddy.
         She said "you". Now, this kid is totally guile-
         less --- she has not learned yet how to say one
         thing to one person and another to another, so
         I'm sure she wasn't just telling me this because
         I was the one who asked the question.  So I
         said, "What kind of work do I do around the
         house?  In the living room, in the kitchen?"
         She said, "You clean the kitchen."  I couldn't
         believe it! I might have believed her if she said
         I occasionally picked up in the living room ---
         but cleaned the kitchen?  Her dad's domain?
         Where did that come from????

   o Another parent reported:

            When our daughter was very young --- about
         3 years old --- we audiotaped an interview about
         what she would be when she grew up.  After
         mentioning a number of possibilities my wife
         said, `What about a doctor?'  Jessica replied,
         `Yeah, I could be a doctor.' Our son who was
         5 at the time interrupted saying, `I think you
         mean a nurse.` `Yeah, a nurse,' Jessica said.
         My wife said, `She could be a doctor if she
         wanted,' and our son replied, `I don't think
         so...I've never seen any, at least not in Iowa.'

   Stereotypes also exist specific to the computer world. One
paper reports:

     We have even found that some young children be-
     lieve computer games and computers are for boys.



                          8




    In one nursery school, Pratto (1982) asked girls and
    boys aged 3 to 5 to name the toys they played with.
    Both girls and boys reported that boys played with
    Atari; it was never mentioned as a game for girls.
    We returned to that school and asked 42 children
    whether they thought computers were for girls, and
    then we asked whether computers were for boys.
    Most children answered this question. Although the
    majority thought computers were for both genders,
    the boys were not as sure of this as were the girls
    (71% of the girls and 57% of the boys). Of the mi-
    nority, more children thought computers were for
    boys only (14% of the boys and 11% of the girls)
    than thought computers were for girls only (7% of
    the boys and 4% of the girls) [Kiesler et al 1985,
    page 456].

   The point of this section can be illustrated by the following
incident:

    A group of parents arranged a tour of a hospital for
    a group of twenty children: ten boys and ten girls.
    At the end of the tour, hospital officials presented
    each child with a cap: doctors' caps for the boys,
    nurses' caps for the girls. The parents, outraged at
    this sexism, went to see the hospital administration.
    They were promised that in the future, this would
    be corrected. The next year, a similar tour was ar-
    ranged, and at the end, the parents came by to pick
    up their children. What did they find, but the ex-
    act same thing --- all the boys had on doctors' hats,
    all the girls had on nurses' hats!  Steaming, they
    stormed up to the director's office and demanded an
    explanation. The director gently told them, `But it
    was totally different this year: We offered them all
    whichever hat they wanted'" [Hofstadter 1986, page
    156].



1.1.4   The Effects of Stereotypes on Teachers

        and Advisors

Additionally, stereotypes influence people who advise students,
such as their parents, guidance counselors, and teachers. For
example, [Stewart et al 1989] showed that, when given artifi-
cial case studies, high school teachers were more likely to ad-



                         9




vise male students than otherwise-identical female students to
take courses that would prepare them for post-secondary insti-
tutions. Another study showed that high school girls "said that
they had chosen business and commercial courses in order to
prepare themselves for clerical jobs because they believed these
were the jobs open to women" [Stewart et al 1989, page 261].
In response to a survey of female scientists,


     [M]any women felt they had been given inadequate
     advice on careers and choices of subject --- careers
     advisers seemed to be fixated on nursing and teach-
     ing, and some were completely floored by requests
     for information about nuclear physicists or process
     engineers [Ferry et al 1982, pages 27-28].


Interviews with high school guidance counselors yielded simi-
larly prejudiced advice to girls:


     A counselor in her early 30's: `Well, if they bring
     me their registration card with (an AP [advanced
     placement] science course) listed I'll check to see if
     that's really what they meant... but I would never
     encourage it.  I mean, it's usually their last year
     and there are so many fun things going on. I think
     they'll be busy enough and they can get into the
     serious work in college.'

     A counselor in her 20's: `I just hate to see a girl get
     in over her head. I always try to place students at
     a level where I know they'll be successful. I mean,
     wouldn't it be frightful to spoil a beautiful record
     by doing poorly in a course your senior year.'

     A male director of guidance, mid-forties: `Sure, I'm
     for the AP Program in general, but not for encour-
     aging girls in science necessarily. Have you looked
     at the Bureau of Labor Statistics? It's a contracting
     market. There are men with Ph.D.'s in physics all
     over the place who can't get jobs. Why should we
     encourage girls? Why, if they're successful, they'd
     be taking jobs away from men who need them. No,
     it wouldn't be fair to the girls' [Casserly 1979, page
     12].


Unfortunately, as the interviewer goes on to report, "these com-
ments were chosen not because they were unique but because



                         10




they represented all too commonly the attitudes of the coun-
selors in many schools".
   Additionally, even when girls are in science classes, teachers
sometimes treat them differently, as shown by the following
remarks from an interview of junior high school girls:

       So this teacher came down from the high school
    to give a demonstration in physics and said, `Now
    this is going to make a pretty big noise, so any of
    you girls who don't like loud noises better cover your
    ears.'
       He said, `Now this is going to be dirty so we'd
    better have a boy do it.'
       And he (a high school science teacher perform-
    ing a demonstration to a sixth-grade class) said,
    `Now this will help you boys who fix your own bi-
    cycles, so pay attention!'

(See also [Marriott 1991] and [Hall 1982].) The girls then go on
to describe the difficulties they had in getting their parents to
buy them tinker toys and chemistry sets, which are routinely
bought for their brothers [Casserly 1979, page 9].



1.2    Ways that Males and Females are

       Treated Differently


In addition to the people who consciously believe women less
capable, there are those who acknowledge that women can suc-
ceed at engineering but consider female engineers to be "some-
how suspect" [Turkle 1984, page 200].  I will examine several
aspects of this problem: First, based on their preconceptions of
women, people often exhibit subtle forms of subconscious bias
that cause them to treat women differently from men. Second,
men and women are often held to different standards. Strange
as it sounds, behaviors --- such as succeeding --- are sometimes
considered attractive in men but not in women. Third, there
is something about our culture's view of male-dominated fields
such as engineering that causes female aspirants to be consid-
ered unattractive.



1.2.1   Subtle Bias

In [Sandler 1986, Sandler 1988, Hall 1982], there are summaries
of several studies of subtle, subconscious bias --- that is, people



                         11




observably acting in a biased manner but unaware of their doing
so.  I was apprised of the importance of subtle bias by the
number of respondents who objected to my call for "egregious
examples", writing that they thought the subtle behavior to be
more damaging. [Hall 1982, Sandler 1988] report the following
biases, of which both men and women are guilty:

   o Women are interrupted more than men.

   o Faculty members make eye contact with male students
     more often than with female students.

   o Faculty members are more likely to know and use the
     names of their male students than of female students. [6]

   o Women are often asked fewer or easier questions than
     males.

As Sandler writes, "Singly, these behaviors probably have little
effect. But when they occur again and again, they give a pow-
erful message to women: they are not as worthwhile as men nor
are they expected to participate fully in class, in college, or in
life at large" [Sandler 1988, page 149]. Unfortunately, the mes-
sage appears to have sunk in. Studies have shown that, when
engineering students are asked to predict the academic per-
formance relative to that of male and female colleagues, "both
sexes anticipated that men would outperform women. This was
paradoxical, since the average female student had both a higher
grade point average and higher class rank from high school than
the average male" ([Ott 1975] in [Zappert et al 1984, page 4]).
Another study found that, when male and female college stu-
dents were asked to predict their midterm test score before tak-
ing it, men had higher expectations for themselves than women
did for themselves, even though the two groups actually per-
formed the same [Erkut 1983, page 229].  Studies have found
that women are more likely than men to attribute success to
luck instead of skill [Deaux et al 1974] and to attribute failure
to lack of skill [Ernest 1976, page 599]. Women's lack of con-
fidence, and one consequence, is illustrated by an incident at
Columbia, reported by Professor Joan Birman:

     I learned last year, to my astonishment, that for
     about four years running the honors calculus course
_____________________
6. The experience of women I have talked with is that if females are in
an extreme minority, they stand out so much that the teachers are likely
to know their names.



                         12




    had been all male, in spite of the fact that admis-
    sion was based on an open competitive examination.
    This fall, one of the senior mathematics majors and
    myself made an intensive effort to encourage women
    to try the exam! The typical answer was, `I know
    I won't pass it,' --- to which we replied over and
    over, `Well , if you try it, at worst you will confirm
    what you already know, and only an hour of time
    will have been lost.'  After three days of such ad-
    vising, the big day came, the exam was given, and
    this year the class has five men and five women!
    [Ernest 1976, page 604].

   Not surprisingly, girls at single-sex schools study physical
science and math more than in comparable coed schools, "even
though girls' schools frequently have less adequate laboratory
provision than mixed schools" [Kelly 1982, page 497]
   Even more ominously, [Sandler 1986, page 6] reports:

    In one study, first done in 1968 and then replicated
    in 1983, college students were asked to rate identi-
    cal articles according to specific criteria.  The au-
    thors' names attached to the articles were clearly
    male or female, but were reversed for each group
    of raters: what one group thought had been writ-
    ten by a male, the second group thought had been
    written by a female, and vice versa. Articles sup-
    posedly written by women were consistently ranked
    lower than when the very same articles were thought
    to have been written by a male [Goldberg 1968,
    Paludi et al 1985, Paludi et al 1983].  In a similar
    study, department chairs were asked to make hypo-
    thetical hiring decisions and to assign faculty rank
    on the basis of vita.  For vitae with male names,
    chairs recommended the rank of associate professor;
    however, the identical vita with a female name mer-
    ited only the rank of assistant professor [Fidell 1975].

Anti-female bias is strongest in traditionally male fields [Top 1991,
pages 96-97].
   When discussing the results of such studies with fellow stu-
dents, I found that the males have tended to be more surprised
than the females, because many females recalled specific in-
stances of biased behavior, several categories of which are rep-
resented below.



                         13




   In some cases, a woman was viewed as less serious than a
man in a similar position:

   o A female computer science graduate student had the fol-
     lowing experience:

         I was working at a fairly small company whose
         communal coffee was awful.  A group of 6 of
         us (4 men, 2 women) bought our own coffee
         maker and had decent coffee which we paid a
         few cents for to defray the costs of coffee and
         cream. Anyway, I usually bought the coffee and
         my male coworker usually bought the cream. A
         new member to the group (male) approached
         me and told me we were out of cream. I told
         him that M2 usually bought the cream. Later
         that same day, M1 again comes up and tells me
         we are out of cream. I once again tell him that
         M2 gets the cream. To this he says, `But how
         can I bother M2 with something as insignificant
         as buying cream?' Needless to say, I told this
         fellow exactly what I thought about that...

   o One female graduate student in mechanical engineering
     sent the following two stories:

      1. When I first started the [graduate] program, the
         head of the department (male) was assigning desks
         to graduate students...  ([T]here were two entering
         females to the particular program at that time.) As
         he ran out of desks, he said, `Well, just put the girls
         together on a desk.'

      2. That same professor put me (a newly graduated
         math major) into the slower (undergraduate) statis-
         tics class, and put a guy who had had a vague intro-
         duction to stats 8 years earlier in the faster (gradu-
         ate) class.

     Both events took place in the past two years, a time pe-
     riod which she has found "very frustrating".

   o A female computer consultant wrote:

         Most of our users ask for and accept help from
         whichever consultant is available, but some in-
         sist on talking with one of the male consul-
         tants (only 2 of the 10 consultants are male).



                         14




         One user persisted at this, even after Alan ex-
         plained to her that he didn't know the pack-
         age she was working with, and that she would
         be better off asking me because I specialize in
         that particular software. Another user did ask
         me her question, but when she didn't like the
         answer I gave her (I explained what she could
         not do and why), she insisted on taking her
         problem to David (a higher authority?), who
         proceeded to tell her exactly what I had just
         explained. What is interesting about the latter
         incident was that she did not seem to be after a
         second opinion, because she could have gotten
         that from a number of people (all female). She
         apparently specifically wanted a male opinion.

   oWhen a female computer science undergraduate visited
    one of the graduate schools to which she had been ad-
    mitted, she and a male prospective student met with a
    male graduate student to discuss the school. Whenever
    the woman asked a question, the graduate student di-
    rected his answer to the male prospective instead of to
    her, i.e. by making eye contact and gestures toward the
    male prospective. This treatment surprised the woman,
    as she had not encountered such behavior at her under-
    graduate institution.  After the meeting, she delicately
    pointed out the behavior to the graduate student, and he
    apologized profusely and sincerely, clearly unaware of the
    bias while it was occurring. When they met later in the
    day, his behavior was markedly better. The same woman,
    however, in a later meeting with two other graduate stu-
    dents, one male and one female, found herself addressing
    most of her questions to the male until she recognized her
    behavior and corrected it.



1.2.2   Different Expectations for Men and Women

The following examples show how people sometimes expect
women to be less interested or competent in technical areas
than they actually are:

   oAccording to a survey of female scientists:

         Women in mainly male environments are al-
         ways being taken for secretaries or junior lab-



                         15




         oratory staff:  queries may be addressed to a
         male technician rather than his female boss.
         An engineer offering to help a telephone caller
         was told `No dear, this is a technical enquiry.
         Can I speak to someone who can help me?'
         [Ferry et al 1982, page 28]

   o A female computer science professor told me this story:

         I was visiting a university and arrived before
         my (male) host. I approached the departmen-
         tal receptionist to try to make certain arrange-
         ments. In one case, I suggested that my host
         might have made some provision --- `or,' I said
         cordially, `maybe not.' `Oh, probably not,' replied
         the receptionist. `After all you know those pro-
         fessors...' Boy was her face red when she real-
         ized what she'd said. [7]

   o A female undergraduate at a women's college wrote:

         The summer after my first year at [X] I took
         Linear Algebra at [a coed college] nearby. Out
         of probably twenty people in the class, I was
         one of two women. I found that the mood of the
         class was stifling. It was obvious that the men
         of the class expected me to sit quietly in my
         chair and contribute nothing and ask no ques-
         tions. It was also made obvious to me that, in
         general, they felt they were far superior to me.
         Because I had had no contact with them out-
         side of the classroom, I must assume they were
         basing their decision solely on the fact that I am
         female. In addition, I found the material rela-
         tively easy and was getting an A in the class,
_____________________
7. It is fascinating to read about how female professionals and secretaries
interact with each other. One professor reports that she used to sneak to
the typewriter and type her own letters, rather than ask a secretary to do
the work for her. Correspondingly, secretaries generally do not like to 
work for women. "They experience women's authority as `unnatural', whereas
men's authority is taken for granted" [Pringle 1989, page 58]. Additionally,
as hinted by a comment in [MIT 1983, page 21], female secretaries feel
demeaned when female professionals complain about being mistaken for
secretaries. On the other hand, most of the secretaries I have worked with
have treated me the same as they treated my male colleagues, and one
has even told me outright how happy she was to see women as computer
professionals.



                         16




         so they could not be basing it on my academic
         performance. One day as we were going over a
         difficult problem set we had had for homework,
         the professor asked if anyone was able to do
         a particular problem which I had been able to
         solve. When I raised my hand, [a student made]
         the comment `What?!?!  How could you have
         solved that problem!?!?' He in no way hid his
         hostility or his feelings that if he, a far superior
         man, could not solve the problem, I could not
         have. I was completely shocked that he could
         make such a comment. No one else seemed to
         be.  It is no wonder that women tend not to
         contribute in a male-dominated classroom.


   oA female computer scientist sent me a copy of the cover
    of a prestigious computer periodical that showed a family
    (parents and a boy) looking at a computer.  A bubble
    next to each shows what they are thinking. The mother
    is imagining her son using the computer to learn math
    and the father using it to figure taxes. The son and the
    father both imagine using the computer to play space war
    games. [8]


   These diverse examples illustrate how women are sometimes
treated as less capable or interested in technology than men,
instead of being treated as individuals.  Of course, there ex-
ist professors and administrators who treat their male and fe-
male students equally as well or even devote extra effort to
encouraging women.  However, negative events are still com-
mon enough to be of substantial concern. Moreover, the above
behaviors are the symptom of a more fundamental problem:
lower expectations for females. Many of the above events are
too blatant to have the insidious effect of subtle discrimination
(which probably accompany them).  Even if the perpetrators
could be coerced into not so openly displaying sexism, it would
not eliminate the fundamental biases which would be displayed
less directly.



1.2.3   Different Standards for Men and Women

As Sandler writes, the same behavior is viewed differently in
women than in men:
_____________________
8. Cover, IEEE Computer, March 1977.



                         17




     He is `assertive'; she is `aggressive' or `hostile'. He
     `lost his cool', implying it was an aberration; she's
     `emotional' or `menopausal'. Thus, her behavior is
     devalued, even when it is the same as his [Sandler 1988,
     page 151].

This claim can be illustrated by a recent lawsuit by a woman
who "repeatedly heard that she had not been given a partner-
ship at [a] huge accounting firm because she was too macho,
universally disliked and in need of `a course at charm school'"
[Lewin 1990]. This is despite having brought in more business
than any of the other 88 candidates for partnership.  "Com-
ments from the lawsuit [say] that she should wear makeup and
jewelry and learn to walk, talk and dress `more femininely'"
[Lewin 1990]. A survey of female scientists found:

     Most think their male colleagues are more forceful
     and aggressive than they themselves want to be;
     some have resigned themselves to low status rather
     than changing their personalities, while others have
     decided to fight with men's weapons --- and are of-
     ten labeled unfeminine as a result [Ferry et al 1982,
     page 30].

   One study found the same behavior judged more harshly in
female professors than in males:

     [According to] Susan Kay's classroom studies... male
     students were far more likely to give lower ratings to
     those female faculty perceived to be hard graders...
     This finding is consistent with a series of experi-
     ments at the University of Dayton that indicated
     that college students of both sexes judged female
     authority figures who engaged in punitive behav-
     ior more harshly than they judged punitive males...
     ([Martin 1984, pages 484-485] in [Koblitz 1990]).

See also [Kierstead et al 1988] and [Bennett 1982].
   A "halo" effect seems to exist where people tend to interpret
behavior according to their preconceptions.  The same action
is often interpreted differently, depending on whether it is per-
formed by a woman or a man, as the following stories illustrate:

   o When a high-ranking female engineer was at the airport
     to make a business trip, she saw a male acquaintance
     who worked for the same company. He asked where she



                         18




    was going, and she answered San Francisco. He then said
    something like, `Oh, going to do some shopping?'  She
    told me how angry his remark made her, as she works
    extremely hard at the company, putting in long hours
    and taking frequent business trips, with too little free
    time for her to go on out-of-state shopping trips even if
    she were inclined to do so.


   oA female computer science graduate student told me that
    it is common to see different reactions to men and women
    dropping a class. According to her, when a woman drops
    a class, people remark that the class must have been too
    difficult for her; when a man quits, people say he must
    not have found it interesting.


These examples are troubling because they show one way in
which stereotypes are perpetuated. In each case, someone in-
terpreted the actions of a woman based on their prejudices,
reinforcing their own stereotypes.
   Additionally, women at American universities are often the
victims of other cultures' stereotypes.  Foreign nationals out-
number Americans as students in doctoral engineering pro-
grams [Widnall 1988, page 1740], and there are many foreign-
born professors.  In one survey, female graduate students at
MIT "reported that foreign-educated faculty --- many from cul-
tures where women are not held in high esteem --- pose prob-
lems for women in graduate programs, both in class and in
research" ([MIT 1987 ] in [Baum 1990 , page 49]).



1.2.4   Career-Related Success Unfeminine

Not only are some strong traits considered unfeminine, but
"femininity and individual achievement continue to be viewed
as two desirable but mutually exclusive ends," a shocking po-
sition argued in [Horner 1970, page 46], based on empirical re-
search and interviews. In one of Horner's studies, females were
given the sentence "After first-term finals, Anne finds herself
at the top of her medical school class."  Males were given a
similar sentence with a male name.  Subjects were asked to
write a story about the student. While only 8 of the 88 male
subjects exhibited fear of success through negative stories, 59
of the 90 females did. Horner divides the negative stories into
three categories and includes sample stories, of which I include
a subset:



                         19




  1. Fear of Rejection --- "Anne doesn't want to be number
     one in her class.  She feels she shouldn't rank so high
     because of social reasons. She drops down to ninth in the
     class and then marries the boy who graduates number
     one."

  2. Concern about Normalcy or Femininity --- "Anne is com-
     pletely ecstatic but at the same time feels guilty.  She
     wishes that she could stop studying so hard, but parental
     and personal pressures drive her.  She will finally have
     a nervous breakdown and marry a successful young doc-
     tor."

  3. Denial --- "Anne is really happy she's on top, though Tom
     is higher than she --- though that's as it should be....
     Anne doesn't mind Tom winning" [Horner 1970, pages
     60-62].

Additionally, when questioned about Anne, "[m]ore than 70%
...  described Anne as having an unattractive face, figure, or
manners" [Horner 1970, page 63]. Females thus consider suc-
cess to lessen their femininity, a sacrifice many are not willing to
make [Horner 1970, pages 69-72]. See also [Mednick et al 1975].
   This attitude can also be illustrated by the following inci-
dent, reported in [Franklin et al 1981, page 20]:

     One woman earned high grades in a traditionally
     male field.  Her professor announced to a mostly
     male class that this represented an unusual achieve-
     ment `for a woman' and was an indication, first,
     that the woman student was probably not really
     feminine, and, second, that the males in the class
     were not truly masculine, since they allowed a woman
     to beat them.

   Instead, the proper area for a woman's success is seen as
her ability to attract high-status men. In a study for the Na-
tional Institute of Education, researchers Holland and Eisen-
hart found:

     Men's prestige and correlated attractiveness come
     from the attention they receive from women and
     from success at sports, in school politics, and in
     other arenas. Women's prestige and correlated at-
     tractiveness come only from the attention they re-
     ceive from men [Holland 1990, page 104, emphasis
     in original].



                         20




This attitude is exemplified by the way one college woman at-
tempted to insult another:  "[You] may be able to do calcu-
lus, but I'm dating a football player" [Holland 1990, page 104,
brackets in original]. The study found that female friends often
did not even know each other's majors [Holland 1990, page 14],
although they spent large amounts of time together discussing
other matters, primarily boyfriends [Holland 1990, page 14].



1.2.5   Implications of Gender Double Standards

The double standards discussed above should be a significant
concern. Aggression, competitiveness, and even some brashness
are necessary for a graduate student, for example, who must
compete with other students for equipment, funding, and at-
tention from professors. One doesn't get far by politely waiting
to be noticed or for other people to stop using the computer. In
her paper on being a female graduate student at MIT, Candace
Sidner addresses some stumbling blocks women face:


       Receiving an advanced degree, in fact, any de-
    gree, from MIT is rather like being admitted to a
    fraternity.  One has a certain set of rituals to go
    through, and both the process and one's perfor-
    mance define one's position in the fraternity in the
    years that follow....
       It surprises no woman to say that women are so-
    cialized differently than men in our cultures. What
    is surprising is the effect of that socialization when
    women take roles traditionally held only by men.
    The most significant role change centers [on] devel-
    oping confidence and competence. Part of the pro-
    cess of hurdle jumping is not just the getting over,
    it is the form which one presents in doing it.  For
    the MIT fraternity ritual, the form is confidence; a
    woman student must use what I call strutting be-
    havior, that is, she must look and act like she knows
    what she is doing.
       While developing confidence from accompany-
    ing competence, is difficult for all initiates, for women
    there is a subtle, but remarkable difference; women
    in the everyday world are not supposed to appear
    very confident and competent.... As a result, women
    must not only build and show confidence and com-
    petence, just as their male counterparts do, but un-



                         21




     like the men, they must decide first to unlearn their
     normal behavior patterns....
        The strutting behavior appears slowly; there are
     stops and starts, forward and backward progress. A
     woman student begins to act from a little bit of con-
     fidence in her competence, and tests out this con-
     fidence among her peers and superiors. Two more
     difficulties follow.  First, a woman feels less femi-
     nine, because in fact she is less feminine according
     to the prevailing behavior patterns. In her personal
     life, her feelings may be communicated to her part-
     ner(s) who may find her less attractive. This threat-
     ens her personal status.  Eventually a woman can
     learn to find personal friends who value her confi-
     dent image, but the time in between is frightening
     [Sidner 1980, pages 2-3].


   Empirically, a comparative study of male and female Stan-
ford graduate students in technical areas [Zappert et al 1984]
found that women were less self-confident and assertive than
their male peers:


        [W]omen less frequently than men reported that
     they felt free to disagree with their advisors...and
     that their ideas were respected by their advisors
     [Zappert et al 1984, page 9]....
        [W]omen more often reported having trouble say-
     ing "no" and in giving criticism. Women also more
     often reported having difficulty sticking up for them-
     selves and tended to let annoyances pile up [Zappert et al 1984,
     page 12].



1.2.6   Specific Stereotypes Against Female En-

        gineers

As if the culture-wide inhibitions to success were not enough,
there are additional barriers in engineering.  Nowadays, high
school girls from middle- and upper-middle-class families are
expected to go to college and to do reasonably well, but going
to a technical institute or majoring in a technical field is still
considered unfeminine, as these anecdotes indicate:


   o When a female student at an engineering institute went
     home for vacation, her mother leafed through the book



                         22




    of photographs of the freshman class and exclaimed in
    surprise, "Why, some of these girls are pretty!"


   oA male computer professional wrote:


            Back in 1983, I was a freshman here at [X]
         and one of my friends was a genius who hap-
         pened to be a pretty blonde girl....
            She was also a freshman and spent one of
         her first days here searching for her advisor's
         office.  While hunting around [Y] Hall, a man
         in his early 30's came up to her and asked if
         she needed help. She said that she was looking
         for her advisor's office.  The man responded
         with a puzzled, `What major are you?' When
         she answered, `I'm in Electrical Engineering.'
         The man smiled at her and oozed, `Oh, you're
         far too pretty to be an EECS major.'  [She]
         immediately left and told us in the dorms about
         this slimy guy.
            The next day we went to our first lecture for
         [the introductory computer class]. [She] gasped
         as one of the lecturers entered the hall. He was
         the same slimy guy she had encountered the
         day before....
            I'll never forget the quote, "Oh, you're far
         too pretty to be an EECS major." [9]


   oA male computer professional wrote:


         I used to teach undergraduate computer science
         classes, and saw a number of cases in which
         very promising and talented women abandoned
         computer science, much to my disappointment
         since they were some of my better students....
         At least where I was teaching, the discourage-
         ment from that field was given more by other
         women, particularly in the sororities, rather than
         from within the field itself.
_____________________
9. In a later note, the writer added: "[The teacher] was fired two years
after this incident.  According to my advisor at that time, his attitude
toward female students was one of the reasons. (He was not tenure track.
He was a lecturer only.)"  This story was later confirmed by a former
professor from the university.



                         23




   It is worth repeating, however, that the stereotype of male
engineers is almost as bad. Jokes and television portray male
engineers as unattractive, unpopular, awkward, and either un-
successful with or uninterested in women.[10] However, I believe
that in our culture, females are more susceptible to such stereo-
types. This is in large part because, as described earlier in this
chapter, femininity is considered to be at odds with success,
while masculinity is not.
   While the stereotype that female engineers are inherently
unattractive seems to be without rational basis, scientific fields
may well be in conflict with some values traditionally thought
of as feminine and currently held by a majority of females.
The situation seems not to have changed since the following
was written:

     I think [women's lack of achievement] comes from
     the general orientation of girls, young women, and
     even older women, toward `others' (in David Reis-
     man's sense of being `other directed'). Women are
     constantly urged to consider `Am I doing the right
     thing?' and `What shall I be or do that will please
     my husband, children, and parents?' Occupational
     success never comes out as the positive answer to
     these questions. Pleasing others and doing the `right
     thing' always means holding back, and retreating
     from a position of strong ambition and career com-
     mitment [Epstein 1974, page 15].

I would add that being other-directed might steer women away
from objective sciences into the humanities and the more people-
oriented social sciences. Thus, the values that are encouraged
in women would not only make them less career-oriented but
more likely to avoid the sciences.



1.3    Summary


In our society, males and females are regarded very differently.
Assertiveness, confidence, and high achievement are considered
consistent with masculinity but not with femininity. In addi-
tion to the stigma associated with success in general, techni-
cal fields are considered particularly unattractive for females.
These factors can influence a girl not to pursue an interest in
_____________________
10. See [Turkle 1984] for an interesting discussion of the male 
engineering student's self-image.



                         24




math or engineering, and they can sabotage a woman's career
because either she acts feminine, e.g. demure, and is not taken
seriously, or she acts masculine and is met with disapproba-
tion.  Of course, as mentioned in [Sidner 1980, page 3] and
[Horner 1970, page 70], confident females eventually find male
and female friends who like and respect them. The problem is
thus not insurmountable. Still, it is an additional barrier that
females face, and the playing field will not be level while these
stereotypes exist.



                         25




26




Chapter  2



THE  MASCULINE ENVIRONMENT



    I do not see that the sex of the candidate is an ar-
    gument against her admission...  After all, we are
    a university, not a bathing establishment --- David
    Hilbert, arguing unsuccessfully for the appointment
    of Emmy Noether to the faculty at G"ottingen. [1]


   Currently, the majority of professionals in computer science
departments and workplaces are male. As a consequence, these
places often have masculine environments in which women feel
uncomfortable or unwelcome. The behaviors described in this
chapter are generally not meant to be harmful to women, which
makes the participants often hostile toward criticism.  Such
behaviors include the display of nude pictures, discussing sex,
telling dirty jokes, and expressing negative stereotypes of women
in an attempt at humor.  Additionally, other activities are
morally faultless, such as coworkers playing basketball together,
but they may tend to make a woman feel less part of the group
if she does not enjoy the same activities.



2.1    Sexist or Sexual Humor


Often, men make sexist or sexual remarks in attempts at hu-
mor.  As the following examples show, this happens in class-
rooms, computer magazines, and at conferences.  In most of
_____________________
1. Weyl, Hermann.  "Emmy Noether", Scripta Mathematica, VIII, 3
(July, 1935), page 207.



                         27




these cases, the speaker probably means no harm.  However,
the behavior makes some women feel uncomfortable. In order
to highlight the effect such statements have on women, their
reactions have been included where available.


   o A female graduate student had the following experience:


         [A professor] in the introductory part of a guest
         lecture on robotics to the graduate core AI class:
         (approximate quote) `Pretty soon we'll have robots
         that are sophisticated enough to wander around
         in shopping malls and pick up girls.'  I didn't
         listen to the rest of the lecture, so I don't know
         what else he had to say.


   o A female computer science professor wrote:


         When I was in graduate school, the professor
         in automata theory introduced the topic of de-
         composition by saying: `Machines are a lot like
         women --- many forms for the same function
         (wink wink).' As the only woman in the class,
         you can imagine that I felt terrific. And all of
         a sudden the guys sitting next to me sort of
         tensed up --- instead of a fellow student, his re-
         mark had made them see me as something else,
         something kinda dirty.


   o The narrator of the industry gossip column in the trade
     journal Infoworld is an adult male with a young girlfriend
     Pammy, shallow and uninterested in computers, whose
     silly statements and actions pad the columns, such as her
     return to beauty school.  ("[A]t 21 she's older and can
     handle the pressure now.") [2]


   o A female computer science professor wrote:


         [A]t a conference in France, a male speaker
         (French), who was speaking about the impor-
         tance of testing, showed an overhead slide of
         a naked woman with a caption of the sort ---
         `Would you buy this product without testing
         it first?'  There were only 2 or 3 women in
_____________________
2. Cringely, Robert X. "Notes from the Field". Infoworld, September 17,
1990, page 108.



                         28




         the audience (of about 150), but I had fleet-
         ing feelings of having accidentally walked into
         a stag party and wondering if he had either
         not expected any women to be there or had
         discounted the importance of directing his re-
         marks to the women in the audience.


What these examples all share is that the male speaker or writer
was attempting to make a cute statement but that females (and
some males) had negative reactions.



2.2    Sexual Displays and Discussions


2.2.1   Different Reactions

At the workplace, many women feel uncomfortable with the
"locker room atmosphere", which includes pictures of nude or
partially nude women on posters or computer screens and the
telling of dirty jokes. Unlike the sexist remarks described above,
however, there is disagreement among women on how inappro-
priate these actions are, with a significant number of women
not personally offended by the behavior (although some of these
women oppose it on the grounds that it upsets other women).
This point is illustrated by the different reactions in the follow-
ing examples:


   oWhen a graduating engineer was touring a company that
    wanted to hire her, they took her through the laboratory,
    which had a pin-up on the wall.  The other people in
    the lab (men) and the men showing her around seemed
    oblivious to the poster and to her discomfort.  She felt
    uncomfortable with the idea of working in a laboratory
    with a picture like that up and ended up refusing the
    offer, partly for this reason.


   oWhen a graduating computer scientist was taken out to
    lunch by engineers of a small computer company, one of
    the topics the employees (all male) discussed was a series
    of lingerie shows in the region. The student did not feel
    uncomfortable about the subject matter, and it did not
    affect her decision about the company, but she thought it
    was something which might make other female intervie-
    wees uncomfortable.



                         29




   o When a computer science undergraduate had recently be-
     gun working in a research group at her university, some
     male graduate students entered the office and began play-
     ing an "adult" computer game, "Leisure Suit Larry," crowd-
     ing around the screen, discussing the game loudly. The
     undergraduate left the office because the situation made
     her too uncomfortable for her to work there. When she
     recounted the story a year later, she said that she would
     not react the same way now and would either be able to
     keep working or would say, "Hey, get out of here, guys."
     The change was due to her feeling more confident about
     her position in the group and knowing the individuals
     personally.


   One female computer science student explained one reason
that some women are offended by sexual humor while others
do not understand what the fuss is about:


        I have noticed that how offended I am by [gender-
     related humor] depends very strongly about how
     comfortable it is to be female and in the present
     environment.
        When I first entered grad school in the CS [X]
     group at [Y], there were some women graduate stu-
     dents, but only a couple. A secretary deliberately
     placed me, when I arrived, sharing a desk with a
     male graduate student who was at that time des-
     perately trying to find a woman (she was trying
     to be nice) --- a professor had a `funny' newspa-
     per article about [a sexual topic] posted outside his
     door.  Don't get me wrong, I found nearly no-one
     among the faculty and graduate students who was
     anti-women or took me or my work or my concerns
     any less seriously than any other first-year student.
     Still, the graduate students were 90 percent men,
     and they talked all the time about how hard it was
     to meet `available' women, and as a first year stu-
     dent trying to establish myself within their commu-
     nity, I found the `locker room' atmosphere oppres-
     sive and daunting. If someone had sent around [a
     sexist joke through email] that year, I think I would
     have hit the roof. In a world where I was struggling
     to find my place, it would have just helped to un-
     dermine it.



                         30




       Today the graduate student population in CS
    [X] has quite a few more women, and is much more
    comfortable. Instead of the "guys" in school here,
    it's the `people' in school here....  In my current
    environment I might have easily [passed along the
    joke] to my [male] office-mate.


2.2.2   Attempts at Changing Behavior

Some computer science graduate students and staff at Carnegie
Mellon were sufficiently disturbed by the display of nude pic-
tures as backgrounds on computer terminals that they got to-
gether and tried to change the situation by publicly appealing
to the community. [CMU 1989 ] is a fascinating report describ-
ing their appeal and the friendly and hostile reactions. Their
appeal included the following passage:

    When a woman sees such a display on your work-
    station, is she likely to believe that you take her
    seriously as a fully contributing member of the de-
    partment? Rather, she may feel that you could be
    a source of sexual harassment, and feel hostile to-
    wards you, or nervous about working with you. If
    so, that is a loss for you, for her, and for all of
    us.  Among the visitors to the department, some
    of whom are prospective students, staff, or faculty,
    there are surely some who will view us as unpro-
    fessional if they see these displays, and this hurts
    us all, too. Conversely, an environment more hos-
    pitable to women --- specifically, one in which rela-
    tions between women and men are less strained ---
    is of clear benefit to men as well.

    For some people, displays of naked women on work-
    stations, or elsewhere in offices, remind them of the
    forces in our culture that view women as sexual
    playthings, not as men's peers.  For others, such
    reactions do not occur.  People who are offended
    will interpret such displays as derogatory, even if
    that is not your intent. We therefore ask you to re-
    frain from using them out of respect for those who
    are offended, even if you believe the offended people
    are just overly sensitive [CMU 1989 , page 2].

The appeal closed by making clear that they were not advo-
cating banning such displays but were requesting that people



                         31




voluntarily remove them out of sensitivity to others. Responses
about the appropriateness of the displays and of the appeal
were mixed and are categorized in the report. Negative reac-
tions included the position that the writers were advocating
censorship "like the Nazis or the Ayatollah Khomeini," that
people should not be asked to change their behavior merely
because of what others might think, and that a public appeal
was inappropriate but instead should have been made by in-
dividuals to individuals.  Of those agreeing, the majority of
responses said that the request was reasonable and not an at-
tempt at censorship, that it prevented people from uninten-
tionally giving offense, and that it was effective at raising con-
sciousness. In response to the criticism that individuals should
complain personally, several women wrote that "[w]omen ask-
ing for changes in behavior individually are exposed to ridicule
and abuse" [CMU 1989 , page 4]. This point was echoed by a
woman quoted in a paper about the "Garden", a laboratory in
the MIT Media Lab:

     [W]hen comments are made about the offensive na-
     ture of the music or movies, they are often ignored,
     or belittled, or are chortled at. Ironically, once you
     are labeled a feminist in the Garden, your comments
     are taken less seriously, because you are considered
     radical and your judgment less fair [Tidwell 1990,
     page 14].

Both the Carnegie-Mellon and Garden papers conclude that
the attempts at changing people's behavior were somewhat,
but not highly, successful.



2.3    Behavior Due to Sex-Correlated

       Differences


An additional category exists of behavior that is not directly
based on sex but which nevertheless discourages women. While
attempts at changing sexist behavior are partially effective,
there seems little that can be done about this category.



2.3.1   Socializing with Co-workers

Through no real fault on any side, a woman sometimes feels
out of place being one of the few women in a semi-social gath-
ering with a group of men, even in the absence of any behavior



                         32




directly related to the sex of the participants.  One reason is
that, in our culture, men are often interested in activities or
topics that women tend not to relate to.
   A female graduate student complained about her experi-
ences as a teaching assistant (TA) for a course in a particularly
male-dominated area of computer science. She wrote:


    Perhaps because the percentage of males is often
    high, men tend to dominate non-academic discus-
    sions with topics of interest to them, such as sports
    and cars, topics which women are often uninformed
    about or uninterested in. The resulting inability to
    participate in discussions can make it difficult for
    women to bond socially, and often leads women to
    feel outright alienated... This is exactly what hap-
    pened to me at each T.A.-faculty meeting.


Another female computer science graduate student described a
similar experience:


    My first summer at [a certain computer company],
    I worked in a group that was otherwise all male.
    While I got along okay with them and never had
    any behavior to complain about, I didn't socialize
    with the group. For example, every day after lunch,
    they would go outside to `shoot some hoops' [play
    basketball], an activity that I just did not relate
    to.  For my next summer, I joined a group that
    had other female programmers and a female man-
    ager. I was much happier in that group. We would
    have barbecues, celebrate people's birthdays, and
    socialize in other ways that I related to better than
    `shooting hoops'. My third summer, I chose to re-
    turn to this group and not to the first one or to find
    a new group.


However, when she casually discussed her social dissatisfac-
tion in an exit interview with the department head, he pointed
out that, coming from a different country, he did not relate
to American sports either.  This raises the important point,
which holds for all examples in this section, that dissatisfac-
tion with certain activities is not strictly divided by sex. There
are individual women who enjoy sports and are better at them
than some men.  Sex-based differences are a tendency, not a
fixed rule. Sex-correlated preferences in our society, however,



                         33




are strong enough that these phenomena tend to work against
women (or whoever is underrepresented in a group).
   Additionally, female group members do not always feel com-
fortable joining male group members who go out drinking to-
gether. Not only might they not enjoy drinking, but some men
are inclined to making lewd remarks after a few drinks. Thus,
there are often times when women feel unable to take part in
activities to which, as group members, they are invited.
   Another problem is that some men do not feel comfortable
socializing in a professional manner with a woman, as this anec-
dote illustrates:


     I was ... the first full-time woman faculty member in
     my department. There really was difficulty among
     my male colleagues in associating with a woman
     as a colleague. I think they literally did not know
     how to talk to me, and as a consequence often just
     did not talk to me. They would ignore me. They
     would not invite me to have lunch with them, which
     was a very ordinary experience there ... they would
     walk past my office and ask the next person and
     never ask me. [Years later] I asked one of my col-
     leagues why this was so. And he said, `You know
     what would happen if I asked you to lunch ... Peo-
     ple would talk' ([Clark et al 1986, pages 36-37] in
     [Sandler 1986, pages 7-8]).



2.3.2   Different Communication Styles

The language that women use often differs from that of men
in subtle ways.  As discussed in [Hall 1982, page 9], specific
constructions appear more frequently in women's speech than
in men's:


   o hesitation and false starts (`I think...I was wondering...')


   o high pitch


   o `tag' questions (`This is really important, don't you think')


   o a questioning intonation in making a statement (`The sec-
     ond chapter does most to clarify the theme?')


   o excessive use of qualifiers (`Don't you think that maybe
     sometimes...')



                         34




   oother speech forms that are excessively polite and defer-
    ential (`This is probably not important, but...')

As Hall concludes:

    If, for example, a woman student begins her com-
    ments hesitantly and uses many qualifiers, she may
    be immediately perceived by her teacher and by
    her classmates as unfocused and unsure of what she
    wants to say. Her `overly polite' style may seem to
    `invite' interruptions by, or inattention from, both
    teacher and other students. Indeed, even the most
    insightful points made in this manner --- especially
    by a woman --- may be taken less seriously than
    the identical points made by a man or delivered in
    a more `masculine' assertive style [Hall 1982, pages
    9-10].

See also [Lakoff 1975].
   A large part of Jenifer Tidwell's report on the Garden [Tidwell 1990]
describes how men and women react differently to the same
treatment, due to their expectations of communication styles:

    The persons I interviewed did not believe that women
    were treated worse than the men were, nor vice
    versa, when I asked them directly.  (`Everyone is
    treated equally badly,' said one male informant.)
    Yet some informants, both male and female, com-
    mented that women may not be able to deal with
    the Garden's harshness as well as the men do --- not
    because of any inherent weakness, but simply be-
    cause they have not been brought up with the same
    expectations of `toughness' (in one man's terms)
    that men have.  Furthermore, it seems more ac-
    ceptable for anyone there --- male or female --- to
    try to solve all one's problems by oneself than to
    habitually ask for help.  All of the women that I
    interviewed commented on this expectation of in-
    dependence (whereas almost none of the men did);
    they did not like it [Tidwell 1990, page 9].

Tidwell writes that the attitude is that "[what could be con-
strued as] harassment may just be social incompetence" [Tidwell 1990,
page 15, brackets in original].
   Anecdotal evidence suggests that women tend to be more
sensitive than men to general obnoxiousness [Widnall 1988, page



                         35




1744]. When a female computer science student told me that a
male TA had been inexcusably rude to her in front of the class,
I looked up the student evaluations of the TA and found this
comment, by another student:

     [He] knows his stuff cold, but he's too rude. Hon-
     estly, once you humble yourself and tolerate this, he
     is an excellent source of help. I owe a lot to him.

A student unused or unwilling to being treated rudely would
not be able to interact with such individuals.
   When I sent electronic mail to a group of women asking for
criticism on the first version of this report, one woman replied
that my request was unlikely to draw many responses. Instead
of asking for "criticism", she told me, I should have asked for
"feedback to help me improve the report", something women
would feel more comfortable supplying.
   Steven Levy's Hackers: Heroes of the Computer Revolution
extensively describes the hacker culture, including the hackers'
apathy and even antipathy toward women.

     Maybe it would have been different if there had been
     more women around TMRC [Tech Model Railroad
     Club] and the ninth floor --- the few that did hang
     around paired off with hackers....  There were not
     too many of these women, since outsiders, male or
     female, were often put off by the group: the hackers
     talked strangely, they had bizarre hours, they ate
     weird food, and they spent all their time thinking
     about computers [Levy 1984, page 72].

Levy goes on to describe the poor hygiene of one of the most
admired hackers, a young man who did not bathe [Levy 1984,
page 73].
   Male computer environments that exclude women have oc-
curred as early as in preschool:

     Even in preschool, males dominate the school com-
     puters. In one preschool, the boys literally took over
     the computer, creating a computer club and refus-
     ing to let the girls either join the computer club or
     have access to the computer.  When the teachers
     intervened and set up a time schedule for sharing
     computer access, the girls spent as much time on
     the computer as the boys [Kiesler et al 1985, page
     454].



                         36




   While it is not clear that one can justify the stereotype
of the engineer and computer hacker as socially backwards,
women are deterred by the environment.[3] (See [Markoff 1989],
for example.) Additionally, whether the stereotype is accurate
is to some extent irrelevant: If females believe that to study or
work with computers requires hanging around socially incom-
petent nerds, the stereotype, true or false, may influence their
decision.



2.4    Finding a Mentor


Having a mentor or sponsor can be of vital importance to a
graduate student or junior professor:


    The sponsor may serve many functions for the protege.
    First, the sponsor introduces and initiates the protege
    in the customs, demands, and expectations of aca-
    demic life.  Second, the sponsor shares his or her
    wisdom and knowledge with the protege, and pro-
    vides encouragement and comments on his or her
    work. Third, the sponsor can provide career assis-
    tance for the protege by making recommendations
    to his or her colleagues at other institutions, or sim-
    ply by sharing a bit of the deflected glow from his
    or her own shining reputation.  Perhaps most im-
    portant, the sponsor helps to form with the protege
    the sense of him or herself as a member of the pro-
    fession, encouraging and fostering a self-image as
    a legitimate member of the community of scholars
    [Simeone 1987, page 101].


Despite the importance of having a mentor, there are few for-
mal policies to ensure that every graduate student or junior
faculty member receives mentoring. Although every graduate
student, for example, has a thesis supervisor, the supervisor
typically devotes different amounts of energy to different stu-
dents.  It is reported that "women are more likely than men
to be excluded from this sort of relationship with senior fac-
ulty" [Simeone 1987, page 102] [Hall 1982, page 10]. There are
several possible reasons for this exclusion. First, as discussed
above, some men feel uncomfortable dealing with women as
_____________________
3. It is worth noting, however, that some men are disgusted by the 
hacker culture, such as MIT professor Joseph Weizenbaum [Levy 1984].



                         37




professionals. Second, some "faculty men may see women as be-
ing different from themselves, less intellectually able, less com-
mitted and dedicated, or simply inappropriate for academic ca-
reers" [Simeone 1987, page 103]. Third, when men and women
work closely together, there is the risk of their being suspected
of having an affair [Simeone 1987, pages 82-83]. Additionally,
many people like to help people who are "like" them, i.e. of the
same sex or race. (Indeed, that was a motivation for my writ-
ing this report.) As long as most of the people in positions of
power are men, and as long as differences in sex are considered
to be of great importance, junior men will benefit.



2.5    Behavior Specific to Technical Events


Computer trade shows and technical conferences are often even
more male-dominated than the workplace and university. Some
of the specific problems of these events are discussed in this
section.



2.5.1   Trade Shows

Men far outnumber women at industry and academic confer-
ences.  At trade shows, particularly, companies have "histori-
cally employed attractive women to draw attention to product
exhibits or booths" [LaPlante 1989].  While this practice has
been declining, an industry journal article about Comdex 1989
reports:


     A number of companies still insisted on hiring scant-
     ily clad female models to attract attention to their
     booths. And a party thrown by Fujitsu went far be-
     yond questionable taste, seriously offending Comdex
     attendees of both sexes [LaPlante 1989].


Additionally, when women do attend, they are suspected of not
being legitimate attendees:


     [PFS Inc. president Mary] Rich remembers attend-
     ing the National Computer Conference (NCC), a
     now-defunct computer convention, where the male
     attendees outnumbered the female ones by a ratio
     of 300 to 1.  Convention officials as well as hotel
     staffs were extremely suspicious of single women,
     Rich said.  Women were often suspected of being



                         38




    prostitutes trying to solicit show attendees.  Rich
    said she once tried to go to the hotel room of a col-
    league for a drink only to be kicked out by security
    when trying to get in an elevator.

    Rich, who co-chaired the 1986 NCC with another
    woman, said that as recently as three years ago
    one of the primary concerns was how women were
    being treated at the show.  `We still had prob-
    lems with security not believing [the credentials of]
    women trying to get onto the show floor,' she said
    [LaPlante 1989].



2.5.2   Technical Conferences

Women are treated better at technical conferences than at trade
shows. While I have never seen any reports of a female speaker
or attendee being mistaken for a prostitute, people sometimes
assume a woman to be the wife of an attendee and not an
attendee herself. Additionally, female computer scientists com-
plain of being propositioned by male attendees.  While this
probably happens at trade shows too, its happening at confer-
ences leads to particularly touchy situations because the women
do not want to offend potentially important men in their field
and feel obliged to find delicate ways to reject indelicate offers.
Because of this, many women act cold to men they meet at
conferences, which has the side effect of discouraging friend-
ship with colleagues who could be useful contacts.
   A female computer scientist, with experience in several fields,
described another problem with being one of the few attendees
who needed to bring along their child:

    One difference between biology and computer sci-
    ence that I have noticed is that it is not unusual
    for childcare to be provided at professional confer-
    ences in biology, while I have never seen it offered
    at AAAI [American Association for Artificial In-
    telligence], IJCAI [International Joint Conference
    on Artificial Intelligence], Cog Sci, or ACM [Asso-
    ciation for Computing Machinery] conferences.  I
    have a baby that I won't be able to leave overnight
    for about 2 years (because of breastfeeding), but it
    is difficult to make daytime childcare arrangements
    for an out of town conference oneself.  Even with
    an older child, it can be difficult to make the night-



                         39




     time arrangements at home if the child is left behind
     (traveling spouse, single parent, etc.), so bringing
     the child along might be preferable if childcare were
     available. [4]


Additionally, another female computer scientist told me that
"some conferences organize `spouse events' which tend to run to
fashion shows, shopping, etc. My husband finds this strangely
unappealing!"
   Presumably, conference hosts do not mean to discriminate
when they fail to provide childcare or provide activities of inter-
est to wives of attendees --- I assume that, if the issue crosses
their minds, they assume that the number of exceptional at-
tendees would be too small to justify the expense of providing
for them. This is an example of how, entirely in the absence of
any bad intentions and purely due to the ratio, conditions can
be such that a class of attendees cannot conveniently take part
in a professional event.



2.6    Different Priorities


2.6.1   Family Life

Having a support spouse, usually a wife, is a boon for any-
one but especially for pre-tenure professors, for whom it is not
unheard of to work hundred-hour weeks. Since women rarely
have a spouse willing to tend house for them, while male pro-
fessors and graduate students sometimes do, the women are
often at a relative disadvantage.  Additionally, wives are of-
ten more willing to relocate for their husbands than vice versa
[Ferry et al 1982, page 29]. As one computer scientist said:


     There was an article in Chronicles of Higher Edu-
     cation about 3 years ago by a male professor who
     wrote about how he and his wife (also a professor)
     needed to have a third party --- a wife... The gist
     of his argument is that faculty workload is based on
     antiquated notions of unquestioning, full-time sup-
     port from a spouse, and that universities need to re-
     vise their expectations of professors [Frenkel 1990,
     page 41].
_____________________
4. I have been told that childcare was arranged for this year's AAAI.



                         40




Women in academia have the additional problem that the years
in which they must work to get tenure are a significant por-
tion of their child-bearing years.  In [Frenkel 1990, page 41],
one woman gives this as a reason for choosing industry over
academia. Additionally, some women "prefer to take a less de-
manding job than their qualifications fit them for, because they
feel that the time and attention they can afford on top of their
responsibilities at home is limited" [Ferry et al 1982, page 30].
This might be one reason that female computer science PhDs
are less likely than their male peers to enter academia, more
often choosing industry instead.
   Not only are some women unwilling to sacrifice family for
work, a choice that men rarely have to make, but when women
do decide to put their career first, it is still assumed that they
do not take their career seriously.  According to a survey of
(English) female engineers and scientists:


    The most trying moments in almost every woman's
    life seem to have been spent in interviews.  The
    women in our survey have nearly all taken the trou-
    ble to equip themselves with a qualification that
    might suggest they had ambitions beyond boiling
    nappies [diapers] and making their husbands' tea.
    Yet time and again they have found themselves be-
    ing pulled apart on the subject of whether or not
    they are likely to leave soon in order to marry or
    have children [Ferry et al 1982, page 28].


Similarly, a study of the hiring of scientists and technical staff at
the National Health Service found that employers often assume


    that all women will leave to have babies and that
    wastage due to pregnancy is greater than for any
    other reason. The pervasiveness of [this myth] was
    shown by the way in which they influenced practices
    at selection (for instance, only women were asked
    questions about marital status and dependent chil-
    dren). They also influenced notions of who can be
    a manager [Homans 1987 , page 90].


So even if a woman chooses not to have children or not to
take time out to raise them, employers will often assume oth-
erwise and treat her accordingly. Furthermore, pregnancy does
not always cause women to miss much work. An army study
found that "even when pregnancy leave is included, [enlisted



                         41




women] take less time off than men, who lose it to sports
and auto injuries and drug, alcohol and discipline problems"
[McNeil 1991].
   Power can be another factor in why women choose not to
be professors. The following was written by a woman who had
been a professor but had switched to an industrial research
position:

     A year ago I would probably have agreed with the
     popular conclusion that academia is difficult for women
     because of the time demands, coincidence of tenure
     with child-rearing, etc.  After a little more than a
     year in industry, I've discovered another reason that
     academia can be difficult for women. I now believe
     that to be highly successful in academic research,
     one has to be very interested (invested?)  in hav-
     ing power. Power over grants, over students, over
     committees, etc.  I often heard professors referred
     to as empire-builders, something that I see very lit-
     tle of where I am now.  Often the most successful
     researchers in my current environment are the ones
     who actively avoid politics and power-struggles and
     just `do their work'. As a woman I don't think that
     I am especially comfortable or adept at the power-
     games that I witnessed in the university.

Of course, there are also men that dislike power and women
who revel in it.  Nonetheless, the tendency of women to be
less comfortable with power than men may hold in our current
society.



2.6.2   The Hacker Culture

Some hacker subcultures have the property that the hackers
spend nearly all of their waking hours, and miss sleep, to use
the computers. In his discussion of the absence of female hack-
ers, Levy writes: "There were women programmers and some
of them were good, but none seemed to take hacking as a
holy calling the way Greenblatt, Gosper, and the others did"
[Levy 1984, page 72].
   Another hacker classic, Tracy Kidder's Soul of a New Ma-
chine describes the intensity of the designers of a new computer:

        Going to work for the Eclipse Group could be a
     rough way to start out in your profession.... [Y]ou



                         42




    don't have any time to meet women, to help your
    wife buy furniture for your apartment, or to explore
    the unfamiliar countryside.  You work....  You're
    working at a place that looks like something psy-
    chologists build for testing the fortitude of small
    animals, and your boss won't even say hello to you.
       New and old hands told the same story. Chuck
    Holland: `I can hardly say I do anything else now. It
    takes about three days to get Eagle out of my mind,
    so if you have a three-day weekend, you're just sorry
    to see Monday come.'  Microkid Betty Shanahan,
    the group's lone female engineer: `You can end up
    staying all night.  You can forget to go home and
    eat dinner. My husband complained that the last
    three times he's had to do the laundry.' Jon Blau:
    `I've had difficulty forming sentences lately. In the
    middle of a story my mind'll go blank.  Pieces of
    your life get dribbled away. I'm growing up, having
    all those experiences, and I don't want to shut them
    out for the sake of Data General or this big project'
    [Kidder 1982, pages 60-61].


I have been told that, after this book came out, MIT students
lined up to interview with Data General, so the described work
environment does appeal to some computer science students.
In our society, however, women are often less willing or able to
devote all of their life to a job, particularly because working full
force is often difficult without a support spouse to take care of
other parts of one's life.
   When reading how intensely and single-mindedly the hack-
ers work with computers, it is hard not to question the people
who love the computer to the exclusion of all else, an opin-
ion expressed by the writer of the following letter, written in
response to [Markoff 1989], but equally applicable to the envi-
ronment described in Hackers and The Soul of a New Machine:


    To the Editor:
       You regretfully wonder why women have not
    done as well at computers as men. You define the
    issue inside out. The problem is not women's expe-
    rience with computers but men's. If a `passionate
    romance' with the machine is the key to excelling,
    we should pity the men who do rather than the
    women who don't.



                         43




        I am not a feminist crank at either end of that
     interesting spectrum, but no girl or woman I know
     is so alienated from her fellows that she `spurns the
     real world to master a universe locked inside a com-
     puter.'
        Machines do seem better suited for use than for
     passionate romances. So why regret women's atti-
     tude toward them? Why not worry about yet an-
     other generation of men who are sealing themselves
     off from human contact [Harrigan 1989]?


It is important to remember that women who do not throw
themselves into the computer world might not be inferior to
men but that sacrificing everything to computers might not be
something that a psychologically healthy human being does.
Perhaps men and women alike would be better off if some jobs
and hacker cultures did not require giving up the rest of their
lives.



2.7    Sexual Harassment


Because I take it for granted that readers consider sexual ha-
rassment to be offensive and harmful, I am writing little on
the subject. It remains, however a serious problem. A recent
survey of Harvard students and faculty revealed:


     Thirty-two percent of the tenured female professors,
     49 percent of those without tenure, 41 percent of
     the female graduate students, and 34 percent of the
     undergraduate women reported having been sexu-
     ally harassed by a person in authority at least once
     during their time at Harvard.  Fifteen percent of
     the graduate students and twelve percent of the
     undergraduates reporting harassment consequently
     changed their academic plans because of it.  Most
     did not report the incidents [Simeone 1987, page
     115-116].


Other studies, such as [Baker 1990] find even higher percent-
ages of women sexually harassed. See also [Gross 1991], an ac-
count of the hostile environment for women at Stanford Medical
School, which was recently called to attention by the resigna-
tion of a female neurosurgeon.



                         44




2.8    Summary


Because computer workplaces are often overwhelmingly male,
women find themselves in what sometimes feels like a locker
room environment, having to put up with behavior they might
find offensive, such as sexist or sexual humor and female pin-
ups. Additionally, some men use sarcasm or insults to commu-
nicate more than women do, causing women to interpret the
environment as hostile, even when no offense is meant. Also,
because males often have different interests than females do,
such as in sports, women may not feel as though they fit in.
These factors can cause a woman to feel out of place in a com-
puter workplace and make it difficult for her to picture herself
as a computer professional.



                         45




46




Chapter  3



GENDER  IN  LANGUAGE



    If a woman is swept off a ship into the water, the
    cry is `Man overboard!' If she is killed by a hit-and-
    run driver, the charge is `manslaughter.' If she is
    injured on the job, the coverage is `workmen's com-
    pensation.' But if she arrives at a threshold marked
    `Men Only,' she knows the admonition is not in-
    tended to bar animals or plants or inanimate ob-
    jects. It is meant for her --- Alma Graham [1]



   The Sapir-Whorf hypothesis of linguistics states that the
limits of human thought are determined by the nature and the
structure of the language in which thought occurs. One corol-
lary, on which this chapter is based, is that the English lan-
guage's use of gender forces people to think in terms of male and
female, with its gender-specific third-person singular pronouns
and its different titles, in some cases, for males and females.[2]
While it is not necessarily bad to be immediately aware of the
sex of someone being discussed, the connotation of male and
female terms differ so greatly that the distinction not only im-
plies difference but inequality. Biases in language are important
because they show both the biases people hold and how they
are communicated.


_____________________
1. Graham, Alma. "How to Make Trouble: The Making of a Nonsexist
Dictionary." Ms., December 1973, p. 16.
2. Of  course,  many  languages  are  even  worse  than  English
[Hofstadter 1986, chapter 7].



                         47




3.1    Referring to Unknown People


The English language has two sets of pronouns for the third-
person singular: he/him/his and she/her/hers. It is practically
impossible to talk grammatically about individuals without im-
plicitly mentioning their sex.  While this can seem benign, it
has several significant implications, which will be examined in
this chapter.
   When A mentions a person unknown to B ("my biology
teacher"), B must find out whether the third person is male
or female in order to know how to phrase questions ("How
is he/she?").  If A does not provide the information, B will
usually guess the default pronoun from what is known --- e.g.
"he" for a professor, and "she" for a secretary. Most often, this
is done subconsciously, showing the speaker's preconceptions.
It seems reasonable to expect that when children hear their
parents using their best guess for people discussed, they will
subconsciously conclude that a man's being a scientist, for ex-
ample, is normal, while a woman's being a scientist is unusual.
   It is common for female scientists to be incorrectly ad-
dressed. They tend to consider these incidents humorous, and
they trade horror stories:

   o One [female] computer scientist with an ambiguous first
     name wrote:

            [M]y favorite case in this regard occurred
         about two years ago, when I received a letter
         addressed to Mr.  [Name], saying `Dear Mr.
         [Name]:  I attended your presentation at the
         [A] Conference on [B]. Please send me copies of
         your related technical reports. Sincerely, Dr. X'
            Usually, my only response to such incorrect
         usage is to sign my return letter as Dr. [Name],
         but that one was too much for me to let slide
         unremarked. So I sent a reply as follows:
            Dear Dr. X: While I am accustomed to re-
         ceiving letters addressed to Mr.  [Name] from
         colleagues who have never met nor seen me, I
         found your letter quite puzzling.  You began
         by saying you attended my presentation at the
         [A] Conference on [B]. Surely you must have
         noticed that I am female!  If this was a sec-
         retarial error, you might alert your secretary
         that female computer scientists exist and that



                         48




         in cases of doubt, "Dr."  is a genderless form
         that is unlikely to offend (and may in fact be
         correct). Sincerely, Dr. [Name].
            I neither expected nor received a reply, but
         I felt better, and maybe I saved some other fe-
         male computer scientist from one of those let-
         ters.

   oIronically, when a science magazine ran a survey of its
    female readers, the female journalists who received the
    responses found that about half the women had addressed
    the replies, "Dear Sir" [Ferry et al 1982, page 27].

   oA female computer science professor told me:

         When I was applying for jobs, two of the com-
         puter science departments requested letters of
         recommendation for Mr.  [Jane Linda Smith].
         One almost immediately sent a followup let-
         ter, explaining that they were terribly sorry,
         that they indeed knew that [Jane Linda Smith]
         was female, and that they would certainly read
         the recommendation letters more carefully than
         they'd proofread their own request. The other
         department was the one in which I was then a
         graduate student.

   oWhen I received an award from the MIT EECS depart-
    ment for the first version of this report, the award letter
    was addressed to "Mr. Ellen Spertus".

These examples show that some people expect scientists and
science writers to be men to such a great degree that they
blatantly misaddress female scientists.
   Perhaps the most unusual story in this category is that of a
woman who was elected to the National Academy of Sciences
in the late seventies:

       The scroll that [geneticist] Vivian [Davidson] re-
    ceived from the Academy had her name engraved
    on it, and then went on to announce that Vivian
    Davidson was being honored for `his' accomplish-
    ments, and that `he' was now entitled, and `he'
    could, and `he' should. She was so amazed at all the
    `he's that she sent a letter to the Academy inquir-
    ing whether the source of the problem might be that



                         49




     the engraver was British and had taken Vivian for
     a man's name, or was it perhaps that the printing
     process was lagging behind the process of election
     of women to the Academy. The letter she received
     back from the Academy secretary (a man) was an
     angry one informing her that she was the first per-
     son ever to complain, the scroll was an honor, its
     plate had been struck in 1868 by Abraham Lincoln,
     and it had a historic value the Academy was not
     about to tamper with.
        At the next Academy meeting in Washington,
     Vivian raised the matter of the scroll's wording with
     some of the other women scientists. Each one said
     she had never noticed the use of `he' instead of `she'
     on the scroll.  `That's probably true,' Vivian said
     sadly.  `They're so grateful to be allowed into the
     club, they wouldn't dream of making waves. In all
     likelihood they haven't noticed' [Gornick 1990, page
     115].

   Also of interest are the experiences of a male professor whose
first name is also a woman's name:

        I think having that name has made me more
     sympathetic to problems women face, as in e-mail
     it is almost always assumed that I am a women.
     That means I get a rash of mash notes from the
     Math/CS students when they first learn e-mail and
     pick my name out of the user list.... It also means
     that I get a great response every time I post a com-
     puter problem to a usenet group.  Since I haven't
     done the control condition where I have a male's
     name, I'll never know for sure, but the tone of so
     many responses are so solicitous that I have to won-
     der (even followups to see if everything worked out
     okay). The worst case was in a scientific exchange
     through the mail where the other scientist was being
     exceedlingly patronizing. It was only when he came
     to [X] for a convention and tacked on his room and
     phone number and invited me for a drink that it
     dawned on me that he thought he was correspond-
     ing with a woman. For me I can laugh about these
     occurrences (as well as the female roommates I rou-
     tinely get assigned at meetings), but it would cer-
     tainly be different if it never went away.



                         50




3.2    Masculine Terms as Default


3.2.1   The Inequality of Masculine and Femi-

        nine Terms

Because male and female pronouns have different connotations,
an individual is immediately categorized into a set and assumed
to have certain characteristics as soon as their sex is known.
The English language forces us to divide people by sex, and, be-
cause people have different assumptions depending on whether
someone is male or female, preconceptions are applied to them.
Were it not for these differences, asking someone's sex would
have no greater import than asking how to properly pronounce
a person's name, and suggesting that females need female role
models would make no more sense than arguing that green-eyed
people need green-eyed role models. While there is no reason
that specifying the sex of an individual is necessarily bad, it
is in a culture where people associate so many characteristics
with sex.
   When masculine and feminine versions of the same word
exist, the connotations often greatly differ:

   oA teacher writes of trying to describe one of her brightest
    students:

         I found myself saying `She's really a prince.'
         Appalled as I was at my own pro-masculine
         description, I just couldn't say that she was
         a princess because princess connotes someone
         who is fussy and spoiled and accustomed to liv-
         ing in the lap of luxury [Miller et al 1980, page
         58].

   oA female computer science student told me:

         When I was at [X], I derived a good deal of
         satisfaction from watching my male friends de-
         scribe my performance in [electrical engineering
         courses] --- `She's a .....goddess?'

   Additionally, "woman" and "man" are not symmetrical:

   oAs observed in [Hofstadter 1986, page 155]:

         If I write, `In the nineteenth century, the kings
         of nonsense were Edward Lear and Lewis Car-
         roll', people will with no trouble get the mes-
         sage that those two men were the best of all



                         51




         nonsense writers at that time.  But now con-
         sider what happens if I write, `The queen of
         twentieth-century nonsense is Gertrude Stein'.
         The implication is unequivocal: Gertrude Stein
         is, among female writers of nonsense, the best.
         It leaves completely open her ranking relative
         to males. She might be way down the list! Now
         isn't this preposterous? Why is our language so
         asymmetric? This is hardly chivalry --- it is ut-
         ter condescension.

   o One female computer science professor told me:

         I got a recommendation from a college professor
         stating that I was `one of the top female stu-
         dents' in his class ( 100 students,  10 women,
         the women were not all at the top of the class,
         and I was).... I'm sure he meant it as a compli-
         ment.

   o Annie Edson Taylor is described as "the first person to
     go over Niagara Falls in a barrel", while Neil Armstrong
     is "the first man to walk on the moon".

Because masculine and feminine terms have such different con-
notations, the distinctions make females separate and unequal.



3.2.2   Intentional Use of Masculine Terms

Some men consider "being a man" to be high praise even to
a woman, and expect her to be flattered at being called one.
Here are some examples of women's reactions to being called
a man, two from biographies (not of computer scientists) and
one in response to my call for data:

   o Henry Hazlitt said to Ayn [Rand] one day: `I just talked
     with Lu Mises a few days ago. He called you "the most
     courageous man in America."' `Did he say man?' asked
     Ayn. `Yes,' he replied. Ayn was delighted. [3]

   o [A] story --- which as far as I know, is all it was, ---
     once went the rounds of Israel to the effect that Ben-
     Gurion described me [Golda Meir] as the `only man' in
     his cabinet. What amused me about it was that obviously
_____________________
3. Branden, Barbara. The Passion of Ayn Rand. New York: Doubleday
& Company, Inc., 1986, page 189.



                         52




    he (or whoever invented the story) thought that this was
    the greatest possible compliment that could be paid to
    a woman. I very much doubt that any man would have
    been flattered if I had said about him that he was the
    only woman in the government! [4]

   o[This incident] was ...  entertaining.  I and another un-
    dergraduate were head teaching fellows for a computer
    course and we were working our butts off.  He had one
    final that he was pretty worried about, so I greeted him
    afterwards with a six pack.  His remark, `[Jane], you're
    such a guy.' --- A female graduate student.

In all cases, the original speaker thought he was giving the
woman a high compliment. What stands out from these quotes
is the different reactions:  glee in one case, indignation and
amusement in the others. Accepting such compliments is psy-
chologically dangerous because it entails a woman's looking
down upon her own sex.  For example, Ayn Rand, the only
female above to be proud of being "a man", is known for her
misogyny, an unhealthy trait for a woman.  The same phe-
nomenon occurs among some women in male-dominated ca-
reers.  One female computer science graduate student used
the term "male-identified" to describe women who scorn other
women and who aspire to be "one of the guys". Some examples
of such statements are:

   oA male computer professional wrote:

         One way [bias is expressed] is the attitude of
         women themselves. A female programmer here
         found out that the company next door, run by
         women, installs PC systems in offices. Her com-
         ment was, `That's pretty good for a couple of
         women.' Her words, not mine.

   oA female computer science student, when one of two fe-
    male students in a high school advanced placement physics
    class, said: "I judge how hard a class is by how few fe-
    males are in it."

While the above comments are shocking, they should be no less
shocking than a man's expecting a woman to be flattered by
being called a man. In the context of a society which praises
_____________________
4. Meir, Golda. My Life, New York: Dell Publishing Co., 1976, 
page 108.



                         53




women for being "like a man," it is no wonder some women
accept the role.[5]  [Persing 1978] contains many examples of
masculine terms in everyday use.



3.2.3   Unintentional Use of Masculine Terms

Other terms exist besides "being a man" and "one of the guys".
A male high school teacher who recognized the sexism in "di-
viding the men from the boys," told the class that he intention-
ally replaced the terms with "wimps" and "studs," a usage he
did not consider to have gender implications. Indeed, "stud"
is now a popular way to compliment someone from work well
done. What's ironic is that "stud" is an extremely male word.
Its primary definition is a male animal used for breeding.  It
is absurd that some consider it a gender-free way to express
admiration.[6]  When a female professor expressed skepticism
that anyone could think "stud" a neutral term, it was called to
her attention that a few months earlier, she had told a roomful
of female students that they would have to "gird their loins"
and get to work. This also derives from male terms.



3.3    Gender-Neutral English


One area currently under debate is gender-neutral English.
Above, I discussed the issue of how to discuss a specific un-
known person, but it is another question how to discuss a
generic person, i.e. with "he" or "he or she", etc. Related to
this is whether to use terms like "chairman" and "man-hours"
when one does not wish to exclude females.



3.3.1   Background

The most convincing argument that terms like "he" and "man"
are not truly neutral comes not from abstract arguments but
from empirical research:
_____________________
5. I have been able to find nothing in the literature about male identifi-
cation of women in science, although the phenomenon is widespread. Most
women seem to outgrow it and feel ashamed of their former misogyny, but
the subject merits deeper study.
6. There is another whole issue as to what the corresponding female term
would be and why none are flattering --- i.e. one based on sexual prowess.
Brood sow? Whore? Nymphomaniac? This is too far off the subject to
explore here.



                         54




       In 1972, two sociologists at Drake University,
    Joseph Schneider and Sally Hacker, decided to test
    the hypothesis that man is generally understood
    to embrace woman.  Some three hundred college
    students were asked to select from magazines and
    newspapers a variety of pictures that would appro-
    priately illustrate the different chapters of a sociol-
    ogy textbook being prepared for publication. Half
    the students were assigned chapter headings like
    "Social Man", "Industrial Man", and "Political Man".
    The other half was given different but correspond-
    ing headings like "Society", "Industrial Life", and
    "Political Behavior".  Analysis of the pictures se-
    lected revealed that in the minds of students of
    both sexes use of the word man evoked, to a sta-
    tistically significant degree, images of males only ---
    filtering out recognition of women's participation
    in these major areas of life --- whereas the corre-
    sponding headings without man evoked images of
    both males and females. In some instances the dif-
    ferences reached magnitudes of 30 to 40 per cent.
    The authors concluded, `This is rather convincing
    evidence that when you use the word man generi-
    cally, people do tend to think male, and tend not
    to think female ([Miller et al 1980, pages 19-20]).


Additionally, "a number of studies have shown that young peo-
ple are influenced in their job preferences and their willing-
ness to apply for advertised jobs by gender bias in the wording
of the advertisements" ([Bem et al 1973] in [Frank et al 1983,
page 90]).
   Several sentences can be found that demonstrate that "man"
is often unintentionally used to exclude women:


    David Moser once .... observed that in books you
    will find many sentences in this vein: `Man has tra-
    ditionally been a hunter, and he has kept his females
    close to the hearth, where they could tend his chil-
    dren.'....  So much for the sexual neutrality of the
    generic `man'. I began to look for such anomalies,
    and soon ran across the following gem in a book on
    sexuality: `It is unknown in what way Man used to
    make love, when he was a primitive savage millions
    of years ago' [Hofstadter 1986, page 145].



                         55




Consider also the 10thcommandment.[7]



3.3.2   Examples of Usage in Transition

In an approximately one month period of observation, I was
able to find many examples of people waffling on the issues of
gender nonspecific language at and around the MIT Artificial
Intelligence (AI) Lab.  I consider ambivalence more revealing
than conforming to the old ways, because it shows that many
individuals are trying to grapple with the issues but are unable
to do so in a consistent manner. These examples are presented
not because the behavior was egregious but to show the conflict
within individuals:

   o A conference was held in one of the most male-dom-
     inated areas of computer science.  Nevertheless, a few
     women played prominent technical roles. Relevant inci-
     dents were:

      1. A male attendee asked a female speaker: "How many
         [pause] engineer-years did this take?" His pause was
         not sarcastic; he evidently decided mid-sentence to
         use a neutral term instead of "man-years".  One
         guesses he would have used the latter term if ask-
         ing the question of a male.

      2. A female was introduced as a "chairperson" but, like
         the other (male) chairpeople, wore a ribbon that said
         "chairman".

   o During a talk, a professor showed a slide which said "he/she"
     for the generic computer architect, but said "he" when
     speaking.

   o An announcement was sent to members of the AI Lab,
     containing "I am looking for a few brave men (or women)
     willing to help..."

   o In a recent issue of a journal, a book reviewer referred
     to the prototypical researcher as "he", parenthetically
     adding "typically he is a he".[8]
_____________________
7. It is not entirely fair to put all the blame on the word "man". It is 
also easy to find sentences such as "People won't give up power. They'll 
give up anything else first --- money, home, wife, children --- but not 
power" [Miller et al 1980, pages 33-34].
8. Mackworth, Alan K. "Book Reviews and Response". Artificial Intel-
ligence, 38 (1989) 239-251.



                         56




As mentioned above, the trait all these examples share is am-
bivalence.  Many people use neither the old way nor the new
way but some mixture. On such melanges, Douglas Hofstadter
writes:

    This is not progress, in my opinion.  In fact, in
    some ways, it is retrograde motion, and damages
    the cause of nonsexist language.  The problem is
    that these people are simultaneously showing that
    they recognize that "he" is not truly generic and yet
    continuing to use it as if it were. They are thereby,
    at one and the same time, increasing other people's
    recognition of the sham of considering "he" as a
    generic, and yet reinforcing the old convention of
    using it anyway. It's a bad bind [Hofstadter 1986,
    page 150].



3.3.3   Reversed-Expectation Writing

Several writers, in order to argue for non-sexist writing, have
written essays with other biases than the traditional male/female
ones, and the results are (intentionally) shocking. In this sec-
tion, I describe three such forays.


   oDouglas Hofstadter has written an essay ostensibly argu-
    ing for traditional usages but from an imaginary stand-
    point with different terms for whites and blacks analogous
    to those for men and women in our culture. For instance,
    "white" is used for "whites and blacks" (as "men" is used
    for "men and women"), and blacks have different hon-
    orifics and pronouns.  Here is an excerpt of his (long)
    essay:

         Most of the clamor, as you certainly know by
         now, revolves around the age-old usage of the
         noun "white" and words built from it, such
         as chairwhite, mailwhite,... The negrists claim
         that using the word "white", either on its own
         or as a component, to talk about all the mem-
         bers of the human species is somehow degrad-
         ing to blacks and reinforces racism. Therefore
         the libbers propose that we substitute "person"
         everywhere where "white" now occurs. Sensi-
         tive speakers of our secretary tongue of course
         find this preposterous.  There is great beauty



                         57




         to a phrase such as "All whites are created
         equal." Our forebosses who framed the Decla-
         ration of Independence well understood the po-
         etry of our language. Think how ugly it would
         be to say "All persons are created equal", or
         "All whites and blacks are created equal"....
         [Hofstadter 1986, page 159]


   o Bobbye Sorrels Persing, in [Persing 1978], has written a
     powerful essay of an office scene with the male and fe-
     male roles reversed.  Not only are male workers called
     "boy" and "sir chairwoman" (corresponding to "girl" and
     "madame chairman"), they are treated and talked about
     as men stereotypically treat women who work for them
     [Persing 1978, pages 1-5].


   o A recent example exists in the computer world. In MacTech
     Quarterly (now MacTech Journal), "she" is used instead
     of "he" as the generic pronoun. An editorial justified the
     policy and announced that it would be used henceforth
     by the magazine [MTQ 1989A  ].


Further examples of reversing expectations appear in Section
5.1.3.



3.3.4   Reactions to Nontraditional Language

It is telling to look at the reaction to MacTech Quarterly's pol-
icy, printed in the issue following the editorial announcement
[MTQ 1989B  ]. A follow-up article wrote that responses poured
in, "impassioned on both sides". Some readers canceled their
subscriptions, while others pledged to buy as much as possible
from the parent organization. One of the most interesting pos-
itive letters was from a female novice programmer who wrote:


     [A]s a woman who is a bit intimidated by her love
     of math and computers, I deeply appreciate being
     able to open the MacTech Quarterly and have the
     articles addressed to me, personally, a woman.


Negative letters condemned the (male) editor for abusing his
editorial position.  One particularly angry writer repeatedly
called into question the editor's manhood:


     Ms. Hines,



                         58




       You seem to be suffering from severe gender con-
    fusion. As a private matter, that's fine. Everyone
    has their foibles.  But when it becomes editorial
    policy it's offensive in the extreme....
       When I feel like listening to emasculated male
    apologists I can always turn on Donahue. He's easy
    to turn off and I don't have to pay for broadcasting
    his silly ideas. So unless you will be adopting a more
    well-thought-out policy, cancel my subscription and
    send my refund. And I will suggest MTQ adopt the
    subtitle, "A Magazine for High Tech Women and
    Eunuchs".
       If you've got even a dim memory of when you
    had balls, you'll print this.

(Note too the use of "balls", i.e.  something women do not
possess, as a metaphor for fortitude.)  The letter illustrates
that a man is sometimes considered to be a sell-out for taking
a feminist position.  (While some men praised the editor for
his decision, apparently all of the harshest critics were male.)
In addition to the above ad hominem letter, there were more
carefully-reasoned objections:

  1.Because of its long usage as the neutral pronoun, the sex
    of "he" is much less blatant than that of "she".

  2.Using the less grammatical "they" for the singular neutral
    pronoun is a reasonable choice, particularly as it appears
    to have been used centuries ago for this purpose.[9]

  3.Most of the readers of the magazine are male.

Even in the most carefully-reasoned negative letter, however,
the writer expressed his intention not to renew his subscription.[10]
This is clearly a point on which people have strong opinions.
   In response to my call for information, a man wrote:

       I'm the co-author of the [X] Guide;... One of the
    decisions that I made was to remove all the sexist
    language, e.g. "when the user types his command"
    sort of stuff. It wasn't that hard to do, and I figured
    that it was appropriate.
_____________________
9. See, for example, [Frank et al 1983, page 88] or [Miller et al 1980,
pages 121-123].
10. Of course, these observations are based on the letters the editor chose
to print.



                         59




        A couple of the reviewers ...  noticed this ---
     I suppose my prose wasn't quite as seamless as I
     thought it was --- and commented on it. They both
     suggested putting the male gender pronouns back
     in since "most of the users are men, anyway".  I
     didn't take this suggestion; but what struck me was
     that these folks actually noticed the lack of male
     pronouns.



3.3.5   Summary

Many people are not sure whether to use traditional or neutral
terms. The large number of mixed examples implies that people
do not just disagree with each other, but that individuals are
unsure how best to express themselves.  Additionally, many
defenders of male terms do not appeal to tradition or claim that
the term is neutral, but they say that the generic person would
probably be male. Thus, an empirical rather than theoretical
criterion is used, suggesting that the pronoun would change if
enough females entered the computer world.



3.4    Summary


The language used in the academic and industrial world, as in
much of society, is biased toward male terms. A girl must have
a strong vision to see herself in a career considered masculine,
and a woman must have strong character not to be affected by
all the masculine assumptions about her. Still, there are some
things to be thankful for. As Grace Murray Hopper has pointed
out, when the computer industry began, many women worked
with computers, so job titles, like "programmer" and "analyst",
were gender neutral.  That is one barrier less to fight.  Addi-
tionally, the ambivalence about whether to use gender neutral
English and the empirical, as opposed to principled, arguments
used by many to support the old way, suggest that changes may
be made for the better.



                         60




Chapter  4



PROBLEMS  WITH SOLUTIONS



    She never knew whether it was her turn or not, the
    game was in such confusion --- Lewis Carroll, Alice
    in Wonderland.


   Unfortunately, many attempts to encourage women in male-
dominated fields at least partially backfire.  Specifically, spe-
cial treatment can imply, in a number of ways, that women
cannot compete with men. Also, programs implemented to en-
sure equal opportunity often get misrepresented as having lower
standards for select groups. Additionally, consciousness-raising
can lead to hypersensitivity and false accusations, which then
causes falsely-accused males to be skeptical of women's claims.



4.1    The Perception of Lowered Qual-

       ifications


One of the biggest misrepresentations of recent times is that
affirmative action is synonymous with lowered standards for
favored groups.[1] While some affirmative action programs do
involve a deliberate lowering of test scores required for entrance,
many programs do not.  The goal of many affirmative action
programs is to ensure that all applicants are considered in an
unbiased manner.
_____________________
1. I made this mistake in the first version of this report.



                         61




4.1.1   The Need for Affirmative Action

As discussed in Section 1.2.1, women are often judged as less
qualified than men when their performance is identical.  For
example, in one controlled study, department chairs were given
nearly identical curricula vitae of supposed male and female
applicants and asked to recommend their faculty rank. They
chose assistant professor if they thought the applicant was a
woman and associate professor if they thought it was a man
[Fidell 1975]. The following examples show how these contra-
dictions are rationalized:

   o A man is described as `serving on two departmental com-
     mittees and even on one institutional committee,' while a
     woman with the identical experience is noted as `serving
     on two departmental committees but only on one insti-
     tutional committee [Sandler 1986, page 6].

   o A woman who has published only three articles is denied
     tenure. (`Yes, the articles are high-quality, but she should
     have published more than that in 5 years.') Later, a man
     in the same department is awarded tenure. (`Well, he's a
     slow starter, but he shows a lot of promise.') [Lattin 1984,
     page 227].

These studies contradict the assumption that, without affirma-
tive action, all decisions are purely merit-based.  In fact, few
would dispute that "before affirmative action programs were
developed, women were routinely turned down for many fac-
ulty and most administrative positions, regardless of their cre-
dentials" [Lattin 1984, page 228].  For example, "Gerty Cori,
the first American woman Nobel Prize winner (for medicine
or physiology in 1947) ...  was not promoted to full profes-
sor until the year she won the prize" [Hunt 1991].  See also
[Gornick 1990] and [Selvin 1991, page 28]. Clearly, something
is wrong with the way people make decisions, and they must
bend over backwards to make sure they consider each candidate
equally.
   College admissions were also frequently discriminatory be-
fore affirmative action:

        The admissions policy of the University of North
     Carolina, for example, was openly discriminatory
     [until the early seventies]:  `Admission of women
     on the freshman level will be restricted to those
     who are especially well qualified'.... The American



                         62




    Council on Education reported that freshmen who
    entered four-year colleges in 1968 had widely diver-
    gent high school grades: more than 40 percent of
    the girls had averages of B+ or better but only 18
    percent of the boys could boast the same.
       The attitude of some male alumni certainly in-
    dicates that they would find nothing at all strange
    in having disparate admission standards:  In con-
    gressional testimony in 1970, Ann Sutherland Har-
    ris reported the following: `At Yale, when the new
    women undergraduates protested the quota on women
    and made the modest demand for fifty more women
    undergraduates the coming year at an alumni din-
    ner, an alumnus was cheered when he said: "We're
    all for women, but we can't deny a Yale education to
    a man."' And when Harris was questioned by Con-
    gressman William D. Hathaway of Maine on school
    admissions policies, the same bias become apparent:
    `Mr. Hathaway: If you take the college administra-
    tion and they have so many kids that they can take
    into school and they know that 90 percent of the
    men, for example, in our society have to get a job,
    and, say, only 50 percent of the women are going
    to get it, and they have a limited number they will
    take in, aren't they warranted in taking nine out
    of ten men and fewer girls?' [Abramson 1975, page
    74]


With attitudes like this, clearly some sort of program is needed.



4.1.2   Distrust of Qualifications

As mentioned earlier, many people consciously or unconsciously
have lower expectations of women. This is exacerbated by affir-
mative action. If it is suspected (even falsely) that women can
get jobs or university positions with lower qualifications, peo-
ple will be suspicious of their skills. Walter Williams, a black
economist opposed to affirmative action, writes about this phe-
nomenon:


       Today's quota policies raise real doubts in the
    eyes of many whites who wonder whether some blacks
    have earned their status, or whether they had it
    handed to them. Like sickle cell anemia, this `How



                         63




     do you know?' problem has become a sort of black
     man's disease.
        It's not exclusively a black man's disease, how-
     ever. Women and others who have been given spe-
     cial treatment also are victimized by it. Recently,
     I had the occasion to take a short commuter flight.
     Upon boarding the aircraft, I saw a woman sitting
     in the right hand side of the pilot's compartment.
     There I was, faced with the `How do you know'
     problem, with pretty high stakes in the balance.[2]

   The recent press coverage of Supreme Court nominee Clarence
Thomas shows how unreasonable people can be about quota
programs. Newspaper after newspaper reported that, because
Holy Cross College and Yale Law School had aggressive minor-
ity quotas when Thomas was admitted, he necessarily "bene-
fitted from minority preference admissions policies".[3] The im-
plicit assumption is that, if a quota system was in effect, none
of the admitted blacks were qualified. While some of the blacks
may have been unqualified, it would be ridiculous to assert that
none were, and, specifically, that Thomas was unqualified. Ad-
ditionally, as just discussed, Yale's pre-quota admissions did
not even purport to be purely merit based.



4.1.3   Low Self-Confidence

When women suspect (even falsely) that they have gained some-
thing through affirmative action, their self-confidence often suf-
fers. One female MIT student wrote:

     As a freshman I was told I got into MIT because I
     was female. When I was a sophomore, people told
     me I would get into 6-A [the industry co-op pro-
     gram] easier because I was female. When I applied
     for permanent jobs, I was told companies would hire
     me just because I was female [Anu 1990].

As noted in [Anu 1990], hearing such statements repeatedly
can harm a woman's self-esteem and cause her to question her
ability.
_____________________
2. Williams, Walter E. All it Takes is Guts: A Minority View. Wash-
ington,D.C.: Regnery Gateway, 1987, page 44.
3. Barrett, Paul M. and Stephen Wermiel, "Judge Thomas, Billed as
Conservative, May Prove Unpredictable," The Wall Street Journal, July
19, 1991, page A1. The same fallacy appeared in The New York Times
and The Chicago Tribune.



                         64




   No feminist I have spoken with has favored admitting less-
qualified women to university positions. It is easy to see that,
in addition to breeding the distrust described above, admit-
ting unqualified women would, in general, be harmful to the
people one wants to help: If a woman is admitted to a school
for which she is not qualified, she will probably be less happy
and successful than if she attends an institute for which she is
qualified.



4.1.4   Uncritical Faith in Test Scores

Another point of confusion in the affirmative action debate is
how much weight to put on objective test scores.[4]  While many
people assume that someone with lower SAT, LSAT, etc., scores
is less qualified, this is not necessarily the case:


       The SAT is marketed as a predictor of first-year
    college grades. Yet women, who earn higher first-
    year grades than men, score lower on the SAT math
    and verbal section....
       Moreover, women perform as well as, if not bet-
    ter than, men on New York State's Regents ex-
    ams for algebra, geometry and trigonometry.  Yet
    women consistently score lower than men on the
    SAT math section. The manufacturers have no ex-
    planation why women score lower than men on the
    SAT verbal section. It is well known that females
    perform better than males in high school English
    classes [Horner et al 1990].


For example, statistical analysis done at MIT shows that al-
though male undergraduates have higher average board scores
than female undergraduates, women graduate at a higher rate
than men and receive grades that are just as high, even when
adjusted for major.



4.1.5   Conclusion

While there is a need for affirmative action programs, they
have large negative effects that must be considered.  Even if
a program does not entail lower standards for women, doubts
are cast on a woman's qualifications in a society that already
_____________________
4. I've always found it ridiculous that the person with the highest
recorded IQ claims to be the smartest person in the world.



                         65




mistrusts them. Programs with lower qualifications may be a
tactical mistake (in addition to being unjust) because people
may be put in situations for which they are not qualified, giving
them less overall success and self-confidence than they would
have had otherwise. These negative effects should be weighed
when considering implementing an affirmative action program.
   As phrased in [Ernest 1976, page 607]:


     We strongly support such affirmative action to en-
     sure that all potential female candidates are consid-
     ered.  Such increased recruitment efforts can only
     enlarge the list of qualified candidates and thus re-
     sult in the raising of standards.  To immediately
     dispose of a red herring, let us state emphatically
     that none of us believe a less qualified [scientist]
     should be hired, just because she is female.



4.2    Informal Special Treatment Harm-

       ful


Not only can institutionalized special treatment be harmful,
but so can individual initiative. Many instances exist of mixed
attempts to encourage women:


   o A female professor taught an electrical engineering course
     and announced that she especially wanted the women in
     the class to do well.  During tests, she went around to
     the few women in the class and would try to help them.
     The female student I talked to said this behavior made
     her very uncomfortable, and she felt that the men in the
     class resented it.


   o A female computer science graduate student had these
     experiences:


         My undergraduate advisor consistently encour-
         aged me to go on to graduate school, to apply
         for scholarships and fellowships, and basically
         gave me a strong consistent message that I was
         good at this stuff....[While I have had many bad
         experiences,] I have had a number of friends,
         bosses, advisors, over the years who have been
         very supportive, some seeming to disregard my



                         66




         gender, others aware of it and patting them-
         selves on the back for being so good about rec-
         ognizing my talent anyway. The classic exam-
         ple of this is the well-meaning professor who
         asks every woman student he has opportunity
         to talk with, about whatever topic, `How are
         things here for you as a woman?'


   oWhen a female computer science student visited a top
    graduate school to which she had been admitted, she told
    me that a male graduate student presented each of the
    women with a rose and told each that he wanted her to
    come to that school. When I heard this story, I asked a
    female graduate student in the department whether this
    student was trying to sabotage female recruitment. She
    answered:


            It turns out a bunch of people who were
         doing a lot of work on organizing the recruiting
         weekend had decided, off the cuff, that they
         thought this could be nice (as in: what should
         we do with the leftover roses). So it wasn't this
         one grad student working on his own, and it
         was not an attempt to sabotage recruiting.
            Its effect, however, was slimy and sabotag-
         ing. As you note. Some of the women decided it
         was the one unsocialized nerd, others thought
         it was strange but disregarded it, and others
         realized fully how totally inappropriate it was
         even as the rose presentation was happening.
         One of these let the deliverer know, too, what
         she thought of it.


   All these cases have in common that women are conscious
of being treated differently from men by someone who is trying
to encourage women.  Most women do not like this sort of
treatment, although they are grateful for encouragement when
it is sincerely offered. Nevertheless, it would also be wrong to
suggest that professors not encourage women if it does not come
naturally to them and that computer professionals should be
as obnoxious to women as they often are to men. Additionally,
people disagree on when special treatment is positive and when
it is negative. For example, one woman objected to there being
a class entitled "Women and Computers":



                         67




        I think the class is very poorly named, and I for
     one would not sign up for such a course. It assumes
     that women have different/special issues with re-
     gard to computers than men have, solely because
     of their gender. This gives exactly the wrong mes-
     sage to both men and the more `traditional' women.
     What we as liberated women should be doing is as-
     serting over and over until we can make it so that,
     except for a few basic physical differences that we
     unfortunately can't deny (e.g., size and upper body
     strength), women and men are the same. By nam-
     ing a course `Women and Computers,' all you are
     doing is helping to perpetuate the myth that women
     are somehow `different' and should be treated dif-
     ferently.  That's how we got where we are in the
     first place! [5]


   This behavior is closely related to condescension, a prob-
lem described in [MIT 1983 , page 9], from which the following
quotations are taken:


   o "Often, when I ask a male graduate student how to do
     some task, particularly something on the system, he will
     do it for me rather than explain to me how I can do it for
     myself."


   o "I asked a male graduate student a technical question and
     got an answer that seemed to be aimed at someone with
     little or no knowledge of computer science, as if it were
     being explained to a high school student rather than a
     colleague."


Thus, in attempting to help women, people sometimes end up
implicitly insulting them.



4.3    Special Awards for Women


4.3.1   Separate Categories for Males and Fe-

        males

Some people propose female-only competitions as a way to ben-
efit women. However, the psychological effects of such contests
_____________________
5. Bond, Patricia. Comp.society, April 20, 1990.



                         68




are sometimes negative.[6] One female undergraduate wrote:

    I [disagree] with the suggestion that they have dif-
    ferent contests for boys and girls. I believe this has
    a negative effect. My high school was big on "top
    boy" and "top girl". I think it is from traditions like
    that I got the idea (now mostly eradicated) that I
    would be smarter if I were male. Until recently, I
    couldn't stand not being the top girl in a category
    (i.e., being beaten by a girl), but I didn't mind
    a guy's beating me.  The award categories seem
    to imply that females can't compete with males.
    Wouldn't people find having separate competitions
    for whites and blacks offensive, particularly if the
    blacks weren't allowed to enter the white contest?

It should be mentioned, however, that some women believe that
the contests are worthwhile by providing rewards and encour-
agement to highly-achieving females. Thus, no consensus can
be said to exist on the issue.



4.3.2   Fellowships for Women

One popular way of encouraging female graduate students is
through special fellowships for women.  Again, the opinions
are divided on the psychological effects. On the negative side,
the same student who complained about female-only contests
wrote:

       I am a senior, applying to graduate programs
    in computer science, and was just offered a fellow-
    ship from [X]. At first, I was very pleased and proud
    (called my parents, went out to celebrate), but then
    I went back to my fellowship application material
    and saw that certain fellowships are awarded par-
    ticularly to women and minorities in fields in which
    they are most underrepresented. (I can't tell if my
    fellowship is in this category. I will try to find out.)
    While I can understand how such awards might be
    good for women who were very worried about costs,
    the offer has left me feeling more bad than good.
    For a few hours, I was thinking of myself as the
_____________________
6. The quotations from this section are largely taken (with permission)
from a discussion within a large electronic mailing list of women in com-
puter science.



                         69




     best of the best --- i.e. as having won the fellowship
     on merit --- but now I feel like I wasn't allowed to
     play in the big league.
        In contrast, I was offered a RA [stipend and tu-
     ition waiver in exchange for research] next year by
     my bachelor's thesis supervisor. That made me feel
     great. If I thought the offer were related to my be-
     ing female, I would have rejected it.

She reported that a male friend of hers said:

     I'm glad I'm not in a similar position --- you know
     I'm trying to improve my self-confidence, and I'd
     feel so unsure in a world that wouldn't tell me whether
     I was good or just the recipient of a less-deserved
     award.

Another female graduate student wrote:

     I don't want anyone ever to think that I got where I
     am because of special favors granted to me because
     I'm female.  I decided ...  that I would not apply
     for any fellowships or special programs for women.
     I [don't want people to] think that I don't have to
     work as hard as a man to succeed in my chosen
     career.

   The majority of women who expressed an opinion, however,
supported special fellowships and urged women to accept them.
One female computer science professor wrote:

        While I was a graduate student at [X], I got a
     fellowship that was earmarked for women. Initially
     I felt ... that while I was glad to get the fellowship,
     ... it was second class in some way. Two things have
     changed my mind on this. First, I found out that
     my fellowship was in fact harder to get because it
     was a national contest rather than a intra-university
     contest. This solved my initial problem with respect
     to the particular fellowship.
        The second thing completely changed my atti-
     tude about what it takes to be successful.  Now
     that I am faculty, I realize how hard it is to raise
     money. I now actively search for sources of funding
     that are slightly unique to me: funding for women,
     funding for first year faculty and so forth. And why



                         70




    not? Others look for funding that is particular to
    VLSI say....  [W]e are judged on our output, and
    ...  we should take advantage of any opportunity
    that comes our way. That initial ... fellowship has
    caused doors to open for me all along my career ---
    job offers, research funding, etc. In hindsight I
    would have been an idiot to decline it.
       I now realize that my initial feelings about the
    fellowship said more about my attitude toward women
    than reality. That fellowship wasn't second class, I
    just thought something special for women must be.
    I've been taught an important lesson.


Many people do not realize how competitive some fellowships
for women and minorities are.  The competition for the top
women and minorities fellowships is now so intense that a fe-
male computer science student I spoke with was not surprised
when she failed to win a special fellowship for women but won
the most coveted fellowship that was open to both sexes. Be-
cause outside funding makes graduate life easier and because
any stigma associated with special fellowships seems to be de-
creasing, they are almost certainly a worthwhile way to help
women further their education.
   Another issue is whether such programs are morally jus-
tified.  There would be an outcry against a publicly-funded
scholarship for which only men were eligible, so a women-only
scholarship program might not be morally justifiable. On the
other hand, as this report has documented, women face so many
biases that there is reason to believe that practically all women
are unfairly handicapped in some way relative to men. Different
people will have different opinions on whether a biased program
is a legitimate response to existing bias in a community.



4.3.3   "Heck, We Want More Girls"

Perhaps the most insidious form of sexism is practiced by men
who are eager for more women to enter computer science, but
for social reasons. The following quotations from female grad-
uate students are from [MIT 1983 , pages 14-15]:


   o"A male graduate student said, `The problem with this
    place is that there aren't enough attractive, available fe-
    male graduate students.' Enough for what? I'm not here
    to be available and attractive."



                         71




   o "A graduate student said, `Men are tired of only seeing
     men. They want to see women in dresses, not women who
     look like men.'"


More recently, in a public discussion on women in computer sci-
ence, an ostensibly sympathetic male wrote, "Sigh. I'd love to
see more girls [sic] as my classmates!" The "sic" was added by
the moderator of the newsgroup (who can edit messages before
they are posted), in protest of using that term for college-aged
females.  This sort of message is not uncommon.  In another
discussion, a man wrote:


     At the time, we were really trying to hire some fe-
     males into the software side and I was interviewing
     a bunch of new grads --- mostly girls.  There was
     this girl whose resume looked good and since she
     was as they say --- easy on the eyes, I was trying
     hard to find reasons to hire her.[7]


Such examples occur not only in informal exchange but also in
published books.  On several occasions, in The Psychology of
Computer Programming, Gerald Weinberg expresses opposition
to sexism, decrying prejudice (page 98) and scoffing men who
initially fail to take women seriously (pages 147-148).  The
chivalry of his appeal, however, undermines his point:


     Each prejudice has its price.  In a programming
     project, the exclusion of anyone from any position
     on any basis besides lack of competence robs the
     project of the best possible performance. Moreover,
     once one faction begins to feel that they are being
     judged differently from others, they will begin to act
     differently.... Possibly the greatest single action to
     relieve the shortage of programming and program-
     ming management talent would be to start treating
     women as true equals --- if indeed they are only that
     (page 112).


Additionally, at another point in the book, he refers to a fe-
male employee as "an attractive young thing" (page 48). Most
women would probably consider themselves better off without
allies like this.
_____________________
7. Chow, Stanley T. H. Article 17986 of alt.folklore.computers, date
unknown.



                         72




4.4    Bad Consequences of Raising Con-

       sciousness


While consciousness-raising is beneficial overall, it has several
negative effects.  After hearing how other women have been
mistreated, women sometimes become hypersensitive, particu-
larly because they do not necessarily know which person made
which egregious statement that they have heard third-hand.
Men, too, also can become unnecessarily inhibited in their ac-
tions with females, and being the victim of hypersensitivity
could cause them to be suspicious of just complaints.



4.4.1   Female Hypersensitivity

One consequence of increasing awareness of sexism is that women
may then expect it and treat men with more suspicion. For ex-
ample, at MIT, there were many cases of men misinterpreting
women's friendliness as expressions of romantic interest [MIT 1983 ,
page 14]. While women should know that their behavior could
be misinterpreted, such knowledge has negative effects as well:

    Some women react by becoming wary of all new
    men they meet.  Thus, some men are confronted
    with negative reactions from women to seemingly
    innocuous, friendly overtures [MIT 1983 , page 4].

Men who have been overreacted to are likely to, on the ba-
sis of a misinterpreted event, treat women's complaints with
skepticism.
   This phenomenon is also illustrated by the following letter
from a male computer science student:

       First, let nothing I say leave you with the im-
    pression that I don't believe sexism or racism ex-
    ists. However, I think that many incidents are in-
    correctly interpreted.
       I am TAing the introduction to AI this semester.
    After I graded and returned the first assignment
    some woman and her boyfriend questioned me about
    the grading.  Her grade was somewhat below his
    (about 5 out of 30 points I think).  Her home-
    work was one of the sloppiest ones in the class,
    and probably deserved a lower score but I had been
    instructed to grade generously for the first assign-
    ment. Among her arguments was something about



                         73




     how hard she had worked on it (there was no evi-
     dence of hard work). And something about how she
     and her boyfriend had done it together.  Ignoring
     the possibility that this was cheating (cooperation
     was not allowed) I felt that there was some impli-
     cation that she felt I was giving her a low grade
     because of her gender....
        Since then I have talked to her several times.
     At first I think she may have worried that my grad-
     ing was gender biased, but I don't think she now
     believes that.
        By the way, I did a very rough check of my grad-
     ing records some time ago. By sorting the class by
     average grade and eyeballing the result I think that
     about 1/3 of the women are in each of the top, middle,
     and bottom thirds of the class.

Also, there have been cases where women have gotten upset at
unwanted physical contact, such as being patted on the back by
a man, before finding out that he treats both men and women
in that manner. (Of course, there are many more cases where
men only try to touch their female colleagues.)
   Because of consciousness of discrimination, sometimes peo-
ple who are "obnoxious to everyone" get falsely accused of sex-
ism or racism. For example,

     `General' harassment often takes a specifically sex-
     ist form when applied to women.... Instead of say-
     ing to some average white male, `Your work on
     this project has been inexcusably sloppy, you blink-
     ing idiot; you'll never make it that way!', the re-
     mark may come out, `My God, you think no better
     than my wife; why don't you go home and have ba-
     bies!' [Rowe 1990, page 159]

   Additionally, reports and anecdotes are filled with anony-
mous examples of sexist statements by male professors, staff,
and students. After hearing such things, a female student has
no idea which people around her hold such disturbing attitudes
and is likely to distribute her distrust among the guilty and in-
nocent alike.


4.4.2   Male Hypersensitivity

After men are made aware that women are unhappy with re-
ceiving unwanted and improper attention from male colleagues,



                         74




there is the risk that they will be hesitant to socialize with fe-
males. This phenomenon followed the distribution of the MIT
report on discrimination [MIT 1983 , page 19]. Because infor-
mal interaction is an important part of the educational process,
this represents a serious loss. For example, it is not uncommon
for professors to have meals with their students. It would be a
shame if they failed to invite their female students, out of fear
of being misunderstood.
   Hypersensitivity on both sides occasionally escalates an in-
nocent incident into a colossal misunderstanding. When "Jane"
was interviewed for a job by "John", she found the interview
style strange.  John spent almost all the time talking about
the company and appeared uninterested in hearing Jane say
anything about herself. Jane mentioned she thought this style
odd. Later, she spoke to a friend "Mark" who had worked at
the company and was friends with John.  He said that John
had said that Jane was suspicious at the interview and seemed
to think that she was being interviewed purely for quotas ---
i.e.  that they were not interested in her qualifications.  This
idea had never crossed Jane's mind --- until that point. After
Mark made some further statements about how the company's
leaders were opposed to affirmative action, Jane decided it was
likely that the reason she had not been asked many questions
was because they did not want to hire a female. She felt confi-
dent of this conclusion when they offered a job to a male whom
she considered to be of equal skill to herself. A few days later,
however, they invited her for a plant visit and offered her a job.
Thus, both John and Jane incorrectly leapt to conclusions.



4.5    Summary


Even when people genuinely want to encourage women in com-
puter science, their plans sometimes backfire or have mixed
effects.  Good intentions do not always lead to good results.
This is emphatically not an argument against working to help
women; rather, I mean to alert people to carefully consider the
consequences of their plans and to work to minimize any nega-
tive effects. My recommendations for effective behavior are in
the next chapter.



                         75




76




Chapter  5



RECOMMENDATIONS  AND  CONCLUSIONS



       A taste for the abstract sciences in general and
    above all the mysteries of numbers is excessively
    rare; one is not astonished at it; the enchanting
    charms of this sublime science reveal themselves only
    to those who have the courage to go deeply into
    it.  But when a person of the sex which, accord-
    ing to our customs and prejudices, must encounter
    infinitely more difficulties than men to familiarize
    herself with these thorny researches, succeeds nev-
    ertheless in surmounting these obstacles and pene-
    trating the most obscure parts of them, then without
    doubt she must have the noblest courage, quite ex-
    traordinary talents and a superior genius --- Gauss
    to mathematician Sophie Germain. [1]


       As the data from women's career studies and
    anecdotes from personal experiences of women pro-
    fessionals begin to accrue, one of the questions that
    arises is not `Why are there so few successful pro-
    fessional women?', but rather, `How have so many
    been able to survive the vicissitudes on each rung of
    the career ladder?' --- Dorothy Zinberg [2]
_____________________
1. Bell, Eric Temple. "The Prince of Mathematicians", James R. New-
man, ed., The World of Mathematics. New York: Simon & Schuster, 1956,
volume I, page 333.
2. Kundsin, Ruth B., editor.  Women and Success: The Anatomy of
Achievement. New York: William Morrow & Company, 1974, page 129.



                         77




   There are a large number of factors that discourage women
from becoming computer scientists and computer profession-
als. From early childhood, females are treated differently from
males, and, to become computer scientists, they often have to
face problems that males do not have to deal with. In this chap-
ter, I suggest how people can work to counteract these effects.
Because this chapter is based so heavily on material earlier in
the report, I recommend that earlier chapters be read first.



5.1    Recommendations


The recommendations are divided into four categories:  pro-
grams that could encourage women in technical fields, ways for
women to build their self-image as scientists, ways for women to
deal with biased behavior, and suggestions for men and women
who wish to encourage women in the sciences.



5.1.1   Programs and Policies to Encourage Women

Programs that could be implemented to encourage women are
discussed by [Keith et al 1990, Leveson 1989, Sandler 1986], and
interested readers are urged to read the full suggestions in these
documents. Many of the following suggestions are from these
sources. While the suggestions are geared to universities, most
can be adapted to industry as well. Recommended actions are:

   o Making clear that sexual harassment will not be tolerated.
     Individuals in supervisory positions, such as professors or
     managers, should make it clear that they will not toler-
     ate sexual harassment.  Not only would this discourage
     such behavior, but harassed females presumably would
     feel more comfortable reporting any problems that do oc-
     cur to supervisors who have made it clear that they are
     aware of the possibility of sexual harassment and want
     to fight it. One way an EECS department head did this
     was by announcing during a graduate orientation session
     that sexual harassment was unacceptable and that any
     harassment victims or witnesses should alert someone in
     a position of authority. See [Rowe 1981, Rowe 1985] for
     advice on implementing effective programs to fight sexual
     harassment.

   o Educating all members of the academic community --- in-
     cluding board members, administrators, faculty, students,



                         78




 and staff --- about professional climate issues; the various
 forms differential treatment takes; and the institution's
 commitment to ensure equitable treatment [Sandler 1986,
 page 17]. One way many schools do this is by teaching
 about subconscious discrimination when training gradu-
 ate students to be TAs.


oEstablishing a dialogue with women in the department to
 make sure their concerns are being communicated and ad-
 dressed.  Many women have given thought to how their
 department could be improved but are never asked.


oRegularly gathering data by sex, race, and age covering
 areas such as salary, benefits, promotional analyses, spe-
 cial perquisites, awards, grants, courseload, advising load,
 committee assignments, and so on to determine if men
 and women at all ranks and within all units are treated eq-
 uitably with regard to responsibilities and rewards [Sandler 1986,
 page 18].


oMaking equitable treatment of women and minorities part
 of the formal reward structure. For example, when eval-
 uating performance, give commendations to individuals
 and extra positions to departments that excel in this area
 [Sandler 1986, page 19].


oProviding a method for individuals to turn off the tenure
 clock so they can have children without sacrificing their
 career.


oProviding opportunities for professors to serve as mentors
 to students or for graduate students to mentor undergrad-
 uates.


oMaking sure that female students are involved in research.
 Much of the information about research opportunities,
 particularly at the undergraduate level, is communicated
 informally, and some students may be left out. Addition-
 ally, if pre-college experience is a prerequisite for under-
 graduate research, women and minorities, who tend to
 enter with less experience, may fall further behind. This
 could be avoided by informing students what knowledge is
 needed for interesting jobs and encouraging them to take
 such classes early, or by setting aside money for research
 groups that are willing to provide training.



                      79




5.1.2   Ways for Women to Build Self Image

As described throughout this report, being a woman in com-
puter science is unusual in that the majority of one's peers are
male and many people, consciously or subconsciously, expect
the men to perform better. These expectations are subtly com-
municated to both males and females. Fortunately, there are
many ways that a woman can increase her self-confidence and
her self-image as a computer scientist.


Attending Classes with Other Women

A female computer science student often find herself in a classes
where she is one of the only women. Additionally, she is likely
to have few, if any, female professors. Even in the absence of
being treated differently, this is likely to affect a student's self-
image and perceptions of women.  In reality, females in coed
classrooms are usually treated differently from the males:

     [T]eachers praise boys more than girls, give boys
     more academic help and are more likely to accept
     boys' comments during classroom discussions... While
     girls sit patiently with their hands raised, boys lit-
     erally grab teacher attention. They are eight times
     more likely than girls to call out answers ([Sadker et al 1985]
     in [Van Nostrand 1990, page 187]).

(See also Section 1.2.1.)  By taking classes at women's col-
leges or in women's studies, which almost always have a large
majority of women, female students feel free to more actively
participate in the classroom and are taken more seriously by
teachers and other students. While advising technical females
to consider single-sex high schools and colleges may appear
counter-intuitive, particularly because these schools often have
less adequate laboratory facilities, studies have shown that fe-
males at single-sex schools study more science and mathematics
than those in coeducational schools [Kelly 1982, page 499], are
more likely to continue in science [Ferry et al 1982, page 27],
and are disproportionately successful compared to other women
[Gilbert et al 1983].
   Another advantage of women's studies programs is their em-
phasis on women's achievements. One female computer science
student had the following experience:

     When I entered my first women's studies class, on
     literature written by women, I expected to encounter



                         80




    second-rate works that were only being taught when
    the ground rules eliminated male competition. In-
    stead, the books were first-rate, and I wondered
    why I had never read them before. The class taught
    me that women's achievements had often been over-
    looked. (I had been pretty misogynic before that.)


Because of men's numerical and figurative dominance in engi-
neering classes, a student in a women's studies course can find
herself listening to vocal female students for almost the first
time since entering college.
   Another benefit of women's studies programs is that they
document the barriers women have faced. It is important for
women to realize that the paucity of women in the field does
not imply that women are inherently unable and that negative
behavior they encounter may be due to their sex and not to
any actual shortcomings on their parts.


Female Role Models

Finding female role models and mentors can also be helpful to
a woman's self-image. While male mentors are certainly use-
ful, and many women are happy with male advisors, female
role models serve the additional purpose of providing a liv-
ing example of a successful female scientist. One study found
that "[f]emale graduate students who identified female profes-
sors as role models viewed themselves as more career oriented,
confident, and instrumental than did female students identify-
ing male role models" [Gilbert et al 1983, page 597], although,
as the report notes, self-selection may also have been a factor
[Gilbert et al 1983, page 605]. As noted in [Leveson 1989, page
20]:


    The importance of mentoring and role models can-
    not be stressed too much.  One female student ...
    wrote about her experience in a summer job work-
    ing for a female manager who she described as: `one
    of the most respected people in the company.  I
    had never expected that having a female role model
    would change the way I felt about myself, but it
    did'.


Thus, a female student should consider finding a senior woman
in her field to work for at school or during a summer job. While
a person's sex should not be the primary factor in choosing a



                         81




mentor, spending some time with a female role model can be
psychologically beneficial. (See also [Simeone 1987, pages 104-
109].)



Women's Groups


In part because female computer science students so outnum-
ber female professors, one-to-one contact is not always possible.
Many schools have get-togethers for women in computer science
or engineering, ranging from informal annual meetings to reg-
ular meetings of the Society of Women Engineers. Women find
these activities useful for receiving encouragement and advice,
and they "generate a lot of good feeling" [Leveson 1989, page
23].

   Perhaps the most effective group currently existing for women
in computer science is an electronic mail discussion group with
over seven hundred members which provides women with a "fo-
rum for discussion of both the problems and joys of women in
our field and a medium for networking and mentoring" [Frenkel 1990,
page 36].  Women share advice on female-specific topics such
as the best time in one's career to have children, how to dress
for conferences, and how to deal with sexism, as well as general-
purpose networking. The list is particularly important to women
in computer science because they are so dispersed and might
not otherwise be able to interact with many other female com-
puter scientists and engineers. Being part of a discussion group
with hundreds of female computer scientists can change a woman's
default image of a computer scientist from male to female (or
neutral) --- quite a difference from a student's academic expe-
rience, where two thirds of the computer science departments
have zero or one female professors [Gries et al 1991].



5.1.3   Ways for Women to React to Biased Be-

        havior


In cases of blatant sexual harassment, a woman can usually
complain to some authority. In less clear-cut but nevertheless
offensive situations, this option is often not open. While act-
ing as a group and writing a report was effective for women
at MIT [MIT 1983 ] and Carnegie-Mellon [CMU 1989 ], often
women must react individually to behavior they find unaccept-
able.



                         82




Reacting to Subtle Discrimination


As discussed in Section 1.2.1, women are often the victims of
subtle subconscious bias. For example, a woman may find that
comments are primarily directed to men in a group, uninten-
tionally leaving her out. If the woman does not feel comfortable
directly confronting the individuals in question, there are more
diplomatic methods of calling the behavior to the person's at-
tention:



   oIn a meeting of three computer science students, the sole
    female found herself ignored by one of the male partici-
    pants. Whenever she asked him a question, he directed
    his answer to the other male present. (See page 15 of this
    report.)  After the meeting, the woman took him aside
    and mentioned that she had noticed he had directed his
    answers to [John] and asked, in a concerned way, whether
    she had done anything to cause this behavior. When he
    replied that she had not done anything wrong and began
    to apologize, she dismissed his apologies by saying that
    she was just relieved she had not given him any negative
    signals. He continued to apologize.


    The indirectness of her approach allowed the man to save
    face while still communicating the point.  It appears to
    have been effective, because, when she saw the man later
    in the day, he made eye contact and spoke directly to her.



   oAt a social occasion, a young woman found that a male
    relative directed serious discourse almost exclusively to
    her brother and not to her. When the woman was alone
    with the relative, she said to him, `I hope I haven't given
    you the idea I'm not interested in your opinions on [X].
    I noticed you directed your comments about it to [John].
    I want you to know I am interested in what you have to
    say on the subject.' The male relative replied, sincerely,
    that he had not realized she was interested in the topic
    and would include her in the future.



While some people might object to these oblique methods, as
they involve the victim's pretending to put the blame on herself,
they are effective in situations where the woman does not feel
comfortable being more direct, and they often elicit an apology.



                         83




Reacting to Overtly Sexist Comments

Indirect methods are also often more effective than direct means
for dealing with offensive sexist and sexual comments. As men-
tioned in Section 2.2.2, the only consequence of complaining is
often that one is dismissed as a `feminist'. In a recent column
in The New York Times, a woman described her experience as
a college journalist:

     Though I was militantly middle of the road in per-
     spective, by the second time I mentioned sexism in
     print I was pegged. People I met seemed to treat
     me like a Marxist, a radical, a testosterone-fueled
     male-basher; others asked me why I suddenly hated
     men so much; and certain folks at home warned me
     that I was going to jeopardize my future by scaring
     off potential male suitors [Kamen 1990 ].

Two techniques that are often more effective than anger (even
when justified) are role reversal, which involves the substitution
of other terms for female terms, and humor. Combinations of
these two techniques are especially effective.


Role Reversal  Treating men in the manner in which they
treat women can be an effective response to poor treatment:

   o One female computer scientist said:

         I'm much more often complimented for my dress,
         my hair, or my accent than for the content of
         what I say and do.  So I just turn the com-
         pliments around and tell men how pretty their
         ties are, or how the cut of their jackets bring
         out their broad shoulders. They squirm under
         such scrutiny just as we do [Frenkel 1990, page
         41].

   o When a group of men were unable to understand why
     women in the workplace were offended by posters of naked
     women, a woman put up a huge picture of a naked man.
     She was asked to take it down, communicating her point. [3]

Substituting terms pertaining to race instead of sex can also be
effective:
___________
3. Actually, the reason she was asked to take it down was because a
nearby man was afraid he would be suspected of being homosexual.



                         84




   oSomeone who does not understand why it is offensive to
    call a grown woman "girl" should be asked whether they
    would call an adult black male "boy", something that also
    used to be considered acceptable.

   oA female computer scientist related the following story:

         [A few years ago,] I wrote to Time Magazine to
         register my opinion about a `humor' piece ti-
         tled `Women Are Getting Out of Hand', which
         included lines like `Women are getting too big
         for their britches'. I suggested that they would
         not be likely to publish articles like `Blacks Are
         Getting Out of Hand' or sentences like `Hispan-
         ics are getting too big for their britches'.

See also the passages in Section 3.3.3, which, while impractical
for conversation, also make the point.


Humor  Humor is effective for several reasons.  First, when
men make offensive remarks, if someone protests, they retort:
"Can't you take a joke?" When a woman uses humor to protest
an offensive remark, she can offer the same response if chal-
lenged.  Additionally, humor breaks tension and often allows
one to point out that something is wrong without a direct con-
frontation.
   One female computer professional told the following stories:

   oShortly after my appointment, my boss, V.P. of Admin-
    istration, called a meeting to discuss the problems of the
    center. All of the attendees were male and deans or equiv-
    alent high positions. The discussion in that meeting was
    quite heated with adamant remarks about the problems
    in computing on campus. Towards the end of the meet-
    ing, one of the attendees started pounding on the table
    and reviewed the names of the previous male directors of
    the center, ending with the comment, `No offense meant,
    [Jane], but we need a man in this job.' I responded with,
    `I'm willing to do almost anything to fix the problems in
    the Computer Center, but a sex change operation is out
    of the question.'

    That turned out to be the perfect response --- I got my
    point across and it broke the tension with laughter. The
    moral of this story is, that if you can make your point
    with humor, the message goes down easier.



                         85




   o Another time, I received in the mail an advertisement
     from a company that sells disk drives. The advertisement
     was included in a box that contained Havana cigars. (Ob-
     viously, this company assumed that the mailing list they
     had of CIO's were all men). I wrote a letter to the VP of
     marketing for the company telling him that I thought that
     one of his competitors were trying to undermine the in-
     telligence of his marketing organization by sending cigars
     to female decision makers in his company's name. Two
     days later, I received a federal express delivery from him
     --- it was a bottle of perfume with a letter of apology. I
     thought his response was a good recovery.

A computer science professor told the following story:

     [W]hen I first starting teaching 13 years ago, I was
     married at the time and both my husband and I had
     teaching positions in the same department. My de-
     partment head was sitting in my class (at the time
     we were in a joint math and CS department and my
     department head was retraining). [O]ne day, one of
     my students referred to me as Mrs. [Smith] in class
     and I was feeling pretty frustrated by that point
     since I had noticed that I kept getting called `Mrs.'
     while my husband was [called] `Dr.', so I looked
     at him and said `What do you call Karl?,' and he
     replied `Dr. [Smith]'. So I told him that I'd appre-
     ciate it if he would use the same title for me since
     I had the same degree. Well, he wasn't the type to
     quiet down quickly, so he retorted, `And what does
     Karl think of your feeling that way?,' to which I
     replied angrily, `It doesn't matter what he thinks; it
     was a helluva lot harder to get a Ph.D. than it was
     to get married.'  Word apparently got out to the
     students after that because I wasn't called `Mrs.'
     for quite some time. (Of course, I was shaking by
     the time class ended wondering what my depart-
     ment head thought of that reaction. He never did
     say anything about it.)

   Female computer scientists have combined the techniques,
role reversal and humor, as in the following incidents:

   o A female computer scientist reported:

            A few years ago I was at a workshop held
         way out in the country....  There were about



                         86




      forty people there. I don't remember how many
      were women, but there couldn't have been many.
         At one point we were sitting around singing,
      and after a while someone started one of those
      make-up-a-verse of your own affairs.... It went
      around for a while, and someone offered,

         I know a girl, her name is Jill.
         dum-de-dum de dum-dum-dum-dum
         She won't do it, but her sister will.
         dum-de-dum de dum-dum-dum-dum

         Well, I can't carry a tune in a bucket, but I
      co-opted the next verse:

         I know a guy, his name is Bill.
         dum-de-dum de dum-dum-dum-dum
         He won't do it, but his brother will.
         dum-de-dum de dum-dum-dum-dum

         Everyone laughed, and I thought the matter
      was settled.  But some people won't give up,
      and a few rounds later, the same fellow came
      around with:

         I know a girl, her name is Sue.
         dum-de-dum de dum-dum-dum-dum
         She won't do it for me, but she'll do it
            for you.
         dum-de-dum de dum-dum-dum-dum

      Drat! Can't back down now ... I got as far as:

         I know a guy, his name is Lou....

      when the rest of my colleagues shouted down
      the offender.


oA female computer science graduate student reported the
 following incident:


      A [campus] career recruitment poster, several
      years ago ... made quite a splash. The poster
      portrayed two men in shirts and ties picking
      up a printout off a line printer, dropping the
      fanfold paper all over the floor as they ogled
      at a woman walking by in a miniskirt.  The
      caption: `We think about more than just work
      here at [Company Name].'  Outraged women
      began tearing the posters off the walls, then



                      87




         (insert light bulb here) they instead made pho-
         tocopies and put them up in great numbers all
         over campus. Meanwhile, the recruiters figured
         out something was wrong and tried desperately
         to get rid of them. A number of women went
         to the recruitment talk to disrupt it, and found
         that they were the only ones there.  Several
         hack posters were created, for example one with
         two women in businesslike garb poring over a
         printout while a scantily clad beach-boy type
         walked by, with the caption, `We think about
         more than just sex here at [Company Name].'
         I believe the president of the company issued a
         formal apology afterward. This one is notable
         as much for the reaction of the student body as
         for the poster itself.


5.1.4   Ways for Individuals to Encourage Women

Most of the suggestions in this section involve avoiding behav-
ior that was described elsewhere in the report as potentially
offensive. Because the reader is assumed to have read the rest
of the report, a minimum of justification appears in this section.


Fighting Subconscious Bias

As described in Section 1.2.1, many people treat men and women
differently without realizing it.  Once people understand that
it is possible for a well-meaning person to unintentionally dis-
criminate, they should train themselves to oversee or spot check
their behavior to make sure they do not behave in such a man-
ner.  Anecdotal evidence suggests that, once people become
aware of subconscious bias, they often catch themselves behav-
ing in such a way.  This is true of women as well as of men.
Fortunately, once a person is aware of the problem, the behav-
ior is usually easy to change. Examples of behaviors to avoid
are:

   o Assuming, without any information, that women should
     be given easier questions or projects than men.

   o Paying more attention to remarks made by men than by
     women.

   o Assuming, when introduced to a team, that a male is the
     leader and primarily addressing comments to him.



                         88




   oIf a man, being more friendly and encouraging to male
    peers and subordinates than to females, even if it is out
    of a desire to avoid having one's friendliness mistaken for
    flirtation.

   oAssuming that a woman will not pursue her career as
    seriously as a man because she will leave her job to have
    children. While some women take time off for children,
    all women (and no men) are hurt by this prejudice.

   Additionally, one can help counteract another person's sub-
conscious bias by either discreetly calling it to the person's
attention or by directly offsetting it. For example, if a female
colleague keeps getting interrupted or ignored, one can express
interest in what she is saying without directly telling people to
listen to her, which might be interpreted as patronizing.
   A female graduate student provided me with some positive
examples of how her advisor treated her. In addition to gener-
ally treating her with respect, by giving her challenging projects
and the necessary resources to complete them, there were two
specific things he did that especially impressed her:

   oWhen the student was preparing a paper the two of them
    co-authored for a conference, she made a dozen copies to
    send in, as required by the program committee.  When
    her advisor saw her collating them, he told her that she
    should have had the group secretary do that. The student
    was impressed with this remark because she felt other
    professors might see nothing wrong with a female's doing
    clerical work but would have only redirected male stu-
    dents to a secretary.

   oWhen the student proofread a paper for her advisor, he
    thanked her by name in the acknowledgments "for her
    careful proofreading of this paper and [acknowledged] her
    ongoing study of [related research area]". By mentioning
    her research area, the advisor made clear to readers that,
    despite her female name, she was not a secretary.


Avoiding Unintentionally Offensive or Discriminatory
Behavior

While any well-intentioned person avoids behavior that they
know to be offensive, some people do not realize that cer-
tain behaviors, discussed throughout this report, offend some
women. Good intentions are no guarantee that women will not



                         89




get the wrong message. For example, a woman might feel un-
comfortable with a man who has revealing pictures of women
on his walls or computer screen. Additionally, by not using lan-
guage that could be interpreted as sexist, such as "he" for the
generic computer architect and terms like "manpower", women
feel more included.  One positive example is the name on a
sample application for the United States Department of De-
fense fellowships, included in the instruction booklet: "Smith,
Dana Robin."  Both "Dana" and "Robin" can be either fe-
male or male names.  Another positive example is the alter-
nating usage of "he" and "she" as the default singular pro-
gram in chapters of the influential Computer Architecture: A
Quantitative Approach, by John Hennessy and David Patter-
son.  There are many guides to "nonsexist" communication,
such as [Persing 1978].
   Someone who supervises a research or work group or or-
ganizes its events should try to choose activities at which all
group members would feel comfortable. While it is not always
possible to choose an activity that everyone relates to --- for
example, some people are uninterested in any sport --- an ef-
fort should be made to include everyone in at least some of
the social occasions. I have seen people repeatedly left out of
social activities springing from the workplace because they are
poor athletes or disabled, have unusual dietary requirements,
or do not drink alcohol. Anyone who cannot socialize with the
group will not feel as though they fully belong.  (Conversely,
anybody who does not want to socialize with the work group,
for whatever reasons, should not be made to feel unwelcome as
a worker.)



Encouragement

Some professors rarely encourage or praise their students, but
such encouragement, even if just a few spoken words, is greatly
appreciated and rarely forgotten [Widnall 1988, page 1743].
For example, suggesting that a student consider graduate school
can make a substantial difference [Leveson 1989, page 23]. In
one survey of female scientists, "[t]he encouragement of teach-
ers --- along with that of fathers --- was the influence most fre-
quently quoted as steering [them] towards science" [Ferry et al 1982,
page 27]. In practice, women often do not get encouragement
from teachers and guidance counselors ([Cooper Union 1989]
in [Baum 1990 , page 48]). While encouragement should be di-
rected to worthy males and females, it has greatest effect with



                         90




people who receive little encouragement and who have low self-
esteem, often women [Zappert et al 1984, page 8].  (See, for
example, page 12 of this report.)
   Additionally, it is important for parents to encourage their
daughters as well as their sons in technical areas. "According
to one computer camp director, `Mothers bring their boys to
the classes. Girls have to beg to enroll'" [Hess et al 1985, page
201]. Even if parents do treat their children equally, it is im-
possible to make girls feel that it's as normal for girls to use
computers as it is for boys, with all the biases in our society
(Section 1.1.3) and in children's toys and computer games (Sec-
tion 1.1.2). Nevertheless, it is clearly important to encourage
one's daughters, and many female computer scientists attribute
their career choice and success to parents who encouraged them.



5.1.5   Discussion

Readers will notice that there are many situations for which I
made no recommendations. For example, I had no advice for
the woman who told me about dining with a group of men after
a conference who then began telling jokes that were specifically
degrading of women. I also have found myself with nothing to
say when a brilliant female graduate student says she avoids a
certain research area because of the specific men at the univer-
sity involved in it. Unfortunately, there is a substantial class of
behavior which is both offensive and non-actionable.



5.2    Conclusions


A common thread through the previous chapters is that, for
the most part, people are not consciously trying to discourage
women from science and engineering. Instead, people's behav-
ior is often subconsciously influenced by stereotypes that they
may not even realize they have. Additionally, when companies
direct technical games and products to men, their intent is not
to perpetuate stereotypes but to target the largest existing au-
dience. That some women feel uncomfortable in mostly male
environments is not primarily a result of men's trying to make
them feel unwelcome but of dynamics resulting directly from
the male majority and societal sex-based differences in behav-
ior. While perhaps it is comforting to know that no conspiracy
exists against female computer scientists, it also means that the
problem is harder to fight. The negative influences described



                         91




in this report are so varied and decentralized that there is no
simple way to level the playing field.
   One positive factor is that women and other underrepre-
sented groups are becoming a crucial resource pool. The num-
ber of white males of college age is decreasing, while the need
for engineers and scientists is increasing [Leveson 1989, page 7].
I have been told this is causing even the most conservative busi-
nessmen to begin aggressively targeting women and minorities
as highly-trained technical workers.
   Another reason for optimism is seeing how greatly the sit-
uation has changed.  Although discrimination against women
continues, it is nothing compared to the level earlier this cen-
tury or in the previous one, as some of the quotations at the
beginning of chapters have indicated. Unfortunately, there has
been retrograde motion before: In the 1920s, feminist activity
reduced sexual discrimination at prestigious universities, but
"this trend toward equity was reversed in the 1930s and not
resumed until the 1960s" [Simeone 1987, page xi].



                         92




Appendix  A



ABOUT  THIS  PAPER



A.1     Data Collection Methods


In this document, I include some anecdotal evidence in ad-
dition to quoting other studies and reports.  One way I so-
licited information was through computer networks. I posted
requests for information to private and public electronic mail-
ing lists --- that is, systems that allow a person to send mes-
sages from their computer to the computers of other people.
My initial request is included in Figure A.1.  It was sent to
a private list of women in computer science and the following
public "newsgroups" (electronic bulletin boards): comp.society,
comp.misc, alt.folklore.computers, comp.edu, soc.women, and
soc.feminism. From the net, I got roughly 150 responses. Some
of these included pointers to published reports or to examples
of sexism or anti-sexism in published works. These letters often
included reactions (such as "I found such-and-such upsetting")
and opinions ("I am opposed to such-and-such"). Other letters
included anecdotes.  Some of these letters were from sources
I had reason to trust (friends of friends); for others, I had no
way of verifying any stories. Other categories of letters were po-
lite dissent and "flames" --- attacks from people who disagreed
with whatever they inferred from my call for information. As
described in the introduction, I also learned from my critics
and attackers.
   The data in my paper falls into the following categories:


  1.Published statistics.


  2.Quotations from computer books or magazines.



                         93




_____________________________________________________


For one of my classes ("Women and Computers"), I'm doing a
project on ways in which the message
"Computers/Science/Engineering isn't for girls/women" (or
the opposite) is communicated.  Some examples would include:


- Computer ads featuring scantily-clad women.


- An ad I received for a pink calculator that could
  fit in my "chic little handbag", with large keys
  to keep from breaking one's "gorgeous nails."
  (Their words, not mine.)


- Being treated differently by teachers or coworkers.


I've been collecting some of the more egregious examples for
the past few years, and I'm hoping some of you have your
favorite examples.  I am interested in xeroxes or references
to items in print as well as anecdotes.  Despite the
one-sidedness of my examples, I am interested in both pro-
and anti- female material.  Please email me
(erspert@athena.mit.edu) or physically send material to:


Ellen Spertus
MIT AI Lab, room 630
545 Technology Square
Cambridge, MA 02139


I will send copies of my report to anyone who contributes
and/or is interested.  Thanks in advance for any help.



________________Figure_A.1:_Call_for_Data____________



                         94




  3.Events I have personally witnessed or taken part in.

  4.Quotations and paraphrases from published and unpub-
    lished reports.

  5.Anecdotes and opinions from people I know.

  6.Anecdotes and opinions from friends of friends.

  7.Anecdotes and opinions from people I don't know.

Readers will have their own opinions on how much credence
to give to each category.  The only category I have qualms
about is anecdotes from people I do not know. Consequently, I
have never based an argument entirely on them. Unfortunately,
anonymity was important to many people who gave stories, and
I decided all contributions, except from published or privately-
distributed reports, would be anonymous and contain as little
identifying information as possible. In my records, I have the
source of every piece of data or story, in context. If any reader,
for their own studies or peace of mind, needs to know the trust-
worthiness coefficient of a given anecdote, they can contact me,
and I will provide whatever further information I can without
violating anonymity.  While false anecdotes could have been
passed on by dishonest or misinformed sources, it is highly un-
likely that more than one or two, if any, exist. In any case, I
have prefaced unvouched-for opinions and anecdotes to indicate
the level of indirection, i.e. "a female graduate student wrote
such-and-such" instead of "a female graduate student had the
following experience".



A.2     The History of the Document


This paper was begun during the spring of my senior year, as
a term paper for a course entitled "Women and Computers",
taught by Prof. Sherry Turkle. Because the paper was so long
and because I had other graduation requirements, I did not fin-
ish it until the following January, when I presented the paper
during MIT's Independent Activity Period. I also distributed
the paper through electronic means, mostly to female computer
scientists, some of whom further distributed copies. Because of
the interest the paper generated and the support of the de-
partment, I decided to turn it into an Artificial Intelligence
Laboratory technical report, the simplest way to semi-publish
a document.



                         95




   I had expected negative reactions to my report, on the net
and at MIT, but I was pleasantly surprised. Only a few netters
sent negative email, and nobody at MIT gave me any trouble.
In fact, the head of the EECS department, Prof. Paul Penfield,
was supportive of the project, providing xerox money, and read
the report. The associate head for CS, Prof. Fernando Corbato,
attended my talk.  A number of computer science professors,
male and female, also read the report and expressed encour-
agement.
   I made many changes between the original and this version
of the report. In addition to correcting typos, changes were:

   o Correcting misleading statistics.

   o Incorporating anecdotes and reactions sent in response to
     the original report.

   o Including material from additional articles and books.

   o Reworking the section on affirmative action to correct my
     prior misconceptions.

   o Removing an email conversation with a "flamer" that had
     been included as an appendix.

   o Adding an appendix on advantages women have.

   o Adding quotations to the beginning of the chapters.

The differences between the two versions are large enough that
I would now prefer people to treat the original as a draft and
not duplicate or quote it.



A.3     MIT


"Barriers to Equality in Academia: Women in Computer Sci-
ence at MIT" [MIT 1983 ], published in 1983 and describing
some of the problems faced by women at MIT was distributed
widely.  Unfortunately, some people incorrectly inferred that
MIT was a worse place for female computer scientists than
other schools. There is no reason, however, to think that it was
any worse than other CS departments. In fact, it was probably
better, since there were enough women at MIT to write such
a report and the administration was supportive enough to en-
courage it.  I want to take this opportunity to defend MIT's
reputation.



                         96




   Specifically, MIT's CS department is more supportive of
women than other schools' in the following ways:


   oThere is support for reports such as "Barriers to Equal-
    ity" and this one.


   oThe sensitivity of the department has been increased by
    these reports. This may be the reason I do not see pic-
    tures here of nude women on walls or computer screens,
    still common in other places.


   oThere is an unusually strict policy against romance be-
    tween faculty and students. Professors are not even per-
    mitted to date students in other departments.


   oThere are no sexist or harassing professors that female
    graduate students warn each other about.


   oThere are four female professors, three of them tenured,
    all of whom have expressed support of female students in
    one way or another. As of 1989, only 9 departments na-
    tionwide (5.6%) have this many women [Gries et al 1991].


   oMIT has an outstanding ombudsperson, Prof. Mary Rowe,
    who deals with bias complaints effectively and tactfully.
    She is a pioneer in the study of subconscious bias [Rowe 1990,
    Rowe 1981, Rowe 1985].


Each of these points does not hold for many other computer
science departments.



A.4     How to Obtain Additional Copies


Readers are free to make photocopies of this report or sections
of it, as long as they are not distributed for direct commercial
advantage, and as long as I receive credit as being the au-
thor. For information on obtaining additional copies, contact
the publications office of the MIT Artificial Intelligence Lab
at publications@ai.mit.edu, 617-253-6773, or at the following
address:


    Publications
    MIT Artificial Intelligence Laboratory
    545 Technology Square
    Cambridge, MA 02139



                         97




   If you are connected to the Internet and have access to a
Postscript printer, you can obtain additional copies of this re-
port through anonymous ftp by following these steps:

  1. Change to a directory, such as /usr/tmp, with plenty of
     free space.

  2. Type: ftp ftp.ai.mit.edu, or, if that fails, ftp 128.52.32.6

  3. At login prompt, type: anonymous

  4. For password, enter your user name (or any string)

  5. Type: cd pub/ellens

  6. Type: mget womcs*.ps, replying y to the prompts.

If you have access to a Postscript printer but not ftp, send
electronic mail to ellens@ai.mit.edu, and I will email you the
report.



                         98




APPENDIX  B



SEX-BASED  INTELLECTUAL  DIFFERENCES



       I deny that anyone knows, or can know, the na-
    ture of the two sexes, as long as they have only
    been seen in their present relation to one another....
    What is now called the nature of women is an emi-
    nently artificial thing --- the result of forced repres-
    sion in some directions, unnatural stimulation in
    others. --- John Stuart Mill[1]


       Dr. Edward H. Clarke's book Sex in Education,
    or a Fair Chance for the Girls [1873] was the great
    uterine manifesto of the nineteenth century. It ap-
    peared at the height of the pressure for co-education
    at Harvard, where Clarke was a professor, and went
    through seventeen editions in the space of a few
    years.  Clarke reviewed the medical theories of fe-
    male nature --- the innate frailty of women, the
    brain-uterus competition --- and concluded, with startling
    but unassailable logic, that higher education would
    cause women's uteruses to atrophy![2]
_____________________
1. Mill, John Stuart. The Subjection of Women, MIT Press, 1972, page
22.
2. Ehrenreich, Barbara and Deirdre English.  For Her Own Good:
150 Years of the Experts' Advice to Women.  New York:  Anchor
Press/Doubleday, 1978, page 115.



                         99




Research on Biological Differences


A large amount of research has been done on biological sex-
based differences in various kinds of intelligence. Sociobiology
is a tricky field, because it is difficult to separate the effects of
environment and genetics on individuals.  As this report has
shown, environmental differences can be immense. Many stud-
ies in this field have been flawed by the lack of adequate con-
trols.  For example, some studies of differential mathematical
ability have failed to take into account that the male subjects
had taken more math courses than the females [Petersen 1980,
page 33] or used different types of toys as children. Researchers
have generally found that men tend to have superior spatial
ability, while women have superior verbal ability, with both
differences developing at puberty [Petersen 1980, pages 31-33];
however, the interplay between biological and social influences
is not yet understood [Petersen 1980, Kramer et al 1990].  As
discussed earlier in the report, boys are given more toys that
would encourage development of spatial skills, while girls are
spoken to more by adults. The argument for biological differ-
ences, however, was recently bolstered when Doreen Kimura
found "that hormonal levels can affect people's performance on
certain verbal and spatial tests" [Holloway 1990, page 40].



Reactions


People's reactions to these facts vary.  Some people conclude
that it justifies women's lack of participation in traditionally-
male fields. However, powerful arguments exist against taking
such a stand:


     [B]iological factors cannot be the complete answer.
     In other countries, particularly in Eastern Europe,
     large numbers of women study science successfully,
     despite any biological handicap.  Nor are biologi-
     cal predispositions necessarily relevant when formu-
     lating education policy.  Girls usually score better
     than boys on verbal tests, and boys have more dif-
     ficulty than girls in learning to read.  But schools
     do not take this as a reason for letting boys drop
     out of reading classes.  Quite the reverse:  most
     schools have remedial reading classes which are used
     predominantly by boys.  Teachers put extra effort



                         100




    into teaching boys to read to make up for any defi-
    ciency, whether its origin is biological or social. The
    same could be done to boost the spatial ability of
    girls if the problems were considered equally serious
    [Kelly 1982, page 497].


   Additionally, the field of feminist technology argues that
technology can legitimately be taught in a manner that plays
more to women's strengths, be they biological or environmental,
not relying so heavily on fields like mathematics in which men
currently outperform women. For example, Sherry Turkle and
Seymour Papert found:


    When we looked closely at programmers in action
    we saw formal and abstract approaches; but we
    also saw highly successful programmers in relation-
    ships with their material that are more reminiscent
    of a painter than a logician.  They use concrete
    and personal approaches to knowledge that are far
    from the cultural stereotypes of formal mathematics
    [Turkle et al 1990, page 128].


Student programmers with the less mathematical style, some-
times men but usually women, are discouraged when in classes
that force a more mathematical approach [Turkle et al 1990,
pages 131-132].  Turkle and Papert advocate "epistemologi-
cal pluralism", in which different approaches are allowed to
flourish.  Similarly, Sally L. Hacker argues convincingly that
more mathematics than necessary is required by engineering
programs, weeding out students who would be able to succeed
as engineers if they did not have to pass timed calculus ex-
ams [Hacker 1983]. As one female computer science professor
writes:


    [T]here's a committee at the [X] engineering school
    trying to redesign the school-wide common core cur-
    riculum, for freshman and sophomore years. I asked
    our department's representative to the committee
    to bring up that the current common core tends to
    discourage females and minorities because it's too
    heavily math and engineering oriented (and most
    of these courses are not needed for CS), and does
    not provide options to take courses in more people-
    oriented fields (that are relevant to CS) such as psy-
    chology. Apparently the committee chairman said



                        101




     to our representative something to the effect that
     it is not the mission of this committee to address
     women and minorities, and thus he would not put
     this issue on the agenda.



Conclusion


It seems possible that there are biological differences in the way
men and women think; certainly, there are currently differences
in men's and women's thinking styles. There is no way to tell
now how great the biological differences are. While they may
imply that women will never reach parity with men in com-
puter science and in engineering, there are two major reasons
to believe that women's roles can increase greatly from today's:
First, as shown throughout this report, females face immense
cultural barriers. Second, as alluded to in this appendix, many
technical fields play to men's strong areas. Computer science
is built, in large part, on mathematics, which relies on spatial
ability. Computer programming, however, does not in itself re-
quire spatial ability, and some areas of computer science, such
as user interface design, require more knowledge of human psy-
chology than mathematics. Additionally, sex-based differences
are a tendency, and their degree of effect in an individual cannot
be known.



                         102




APPENDIX  C



ADVANTAGES  FOR  WOMEN



When writing in the body of the report of all the disadvantages
women face, occasionally an advantage for women would come
to mind. In the name of fairness and in order to end the report
on a positive note, I am including them here:

   oThe flip side of a woman's being less likely to have a
    spouse devoted full-time to supporting her career (page
    40) is that she is more likely to have a spouse who earns
    money.  A female engineer told me how her husband's
    income allowed her to quit a job she hated and spend
    three months looking for one that she loved.

   oAlthough males outperform females in mathematical abil-
    ity, females outperform males in verbal ability (page 100).
    In the academic world of "publish or perish," being able
    to write clearly and properly is a large plus.

   oIf people are more likely to help members of the same sex
    (page 38), and if women are currently raised to be more
    sensitive than men (page 24), women will get tremendous
    support from their same-sex peers.  (I have found my
    female colleagues extremely supportive.)

   oIt is not entirely disadvantageous that girls tend to be
    taught how to cook and keep house instead of how to
    fix bicycles (page 11). Being able to cook for oneself at
    college is healthier and cheaper than having to rely on
    cafeterias or junk food.



                        103




   o While all women are to some extent penalized out of the
     suspicion that they will take time off their career to have
     children (page 41), they have more freedom to do so than
     men. A woman's career can be salvaged if she takes time
     off to spend with her young children, but a man would
     be considered insanely irresponsible.

   o Ingenuity can transform other disadvantages into advan-
     tages, as explained in Betty Lehan Harragan's wonder-
     ful Games Mother Never Taught You. For example, she
     points out that, while women hate being constantly in the
     spotlight, men "fantasize about how well they could ex-
     ploit such a favorable situation.... Today's pioneer women
     can begin taking command of situations by merely accept-
     ing their unique position in the spotlight" [Harragan 1987,
     page 311].

   Most important, with a positive attitude, women can make
the most of their situation.  The successful female computer
scientists I know do not say, "I could have gone further if I
were a man."  They say, "I had to work a lot harder than a
man to get where I am." Although the two statements may be
equivalent, self-assuredness is psychologically more useful than
self-pity. Additionally, even women who have been discouraged
sometimes succeed out of spite.



                         104




BIBLIOGRAPHY



[Abramson 1975]     Abramson, Joan. Discrimination in the
                    Academic Profession.  San  Francisco:
                    Jossey-Bass, Inc., 1975. An account of
                    a female professor's experiences of sexual
                    discrimination and a discussion of the sit-
                    uation for other female academics.

[Adelson 1990]      Adelson,   Andrea.  "Study  Attacks
                    Women's Roles in TV." The New York
                    Times, November 19, 1990, page C18.
                    A report on a study, "What's Wrong With
                    This Picture?", commissioned by Women
                    in Film and the National Commission on
                    Working Women. The report found that
                    men have more leading roles than women
                    and that women continue to be portrayed
                    in a stereotyped manner.

[Aisenberg et al 1988]Aisenberg, Nadya and Mona Harring-
                    ton. Women in Academe: Outsiders in
                    the Sacred Grove. Amherst: University
                    of Massachusetts Press, 1988. A discus-
                    sion of the treatment of female graduate
                    students and faculty members, along with
                    advice on how to improve one's chances
                    of success. The major shortcoming of the
                    book (from my point of view) is that it is
                    based almost entirely on interviews with
                    women in the humanities and social sci-
                    ences.

[Anu 1990]          Vedantham, Anu. "A Hostile Educa-
                    tional Environment". This short doc-
                    ument was distributed in the introduc-



                        105




                    tory computer science class at MIT, 6.001,
                    Structure and Interpretation of Computer
                    Programs, in Spring, 1990, after a sexist
                    fake handout, by an unknown author, had
                    been distributed.

[Baker 1990]        Baker, Douglas D., David E. Terpstra,
                    and Kinley Larantz. "The Influence of
                    Individual Characteristics and Sever-
                    ity of Harassing Behavior on Reactions
                    to Sexual Harassment." Sex Roles: A
                    Journal of Research, 5/6 (1990) 305 -
                    325. Results of a survey of individuals' re-
                    actions to different sexual harassment sce-
                    narios, finding differences in response to
                    be partly based on sex. Contains a good
                    bibliography on sexual harassment.

[Baum 1990]         Baum, Eleanor. "Recruiting and Grad-
                    uating Women: The Underrepresented
                    Student." IEEE Communications Mag-
                    azine, December 1990, 47-50. Part of a
                    special issue on engineering education.

[Bem et al 1973]    Bem, Sandra L. and Daryl J. Bem.
                    "Does Sex-biased Job Advertising `Aid
                    and Abet' Sex Discrimination?" Jour-
                    nal  of  Applied  Social  Psychology  3
                    (1973):  6-18. Reports that individuals
                    are more likely to apply for a job if it is
                    the job description is phrased in language
                    that does not implicitly exclude their sex.

[Bennett 1982]      Bennett, Sheila Kishler. "Student Per-
                    ceptions of and Expectations for Male
                    and Female Instructors: Evidence Re-
                    lating to the Question of Gender Bias
                    in Teaching Evaluation",  Journal of
                    Educational  Psychology,  74  (1982),
                    170-179. Evidence that female professors
                    are judged more harshly than male profes-
                    sors by students.

[CMU 1989]          CMU Computer Science Graduate Stu-
                    dents and Staff. Dealing With Pornog-
                    raphy in Academia: Report on a Grass-



                         106




                    roots Action, unpublished, 1989. A sum-
                    mary of the experiences of a group of
                    Carnegie Mellon computer science stu-
                    dents and staff members when they urged
                    members of the community to stop dis-
                    playing pictures of naked women on com-
                    puter screens.

[Casserly 1979]     Casserly, Patricia Lund. Helping Able
                    Young Women Take Math and Science
                    Seriously in School. New York:  The
                    College Board, 1979. Reprinted, with
                    revisions, from Colangelo Zaffrann, ed.,
                    New Voices in Counseling the Gifted,
                    Dubuque, Iowa: Kendall Hunt Publish-
                    ing Company, 1979.

[Clark et al 1986]  Clark, Shirley M. and Mary Corcoran.
                    "Perspectives on the Professional So-
                    cialization of Women Faculty: A Case
                    of Accumulative Disadvantage?" Jour-
                    nal of Higher Education, Vol. 57, No. 1,
                    Jan./Feb. 1986.

[Cooper Union 1989] The Cooper Union 1989 National Sur-
                    vey of Women Engineers. Available on
                    request from the Albert Nerken School of
                    Engineering, 51 Astor Place, New York,
                    NY 10003.

[Courtney et al 1983]Courtney,   Alice  E.  and  Thomas
                    W. Whipple. Sex Stereotyping in Ad-
                    vertising. Lexington,  MA: Lexington
                    Books, 1983.

[Deaux et al 1974]  Deaux, K. and T. Emswiller. "Expla-
                    nations of Successful Performance on
                    Sex-Linked Tasks: What is skill for the
                    male is luck for the female." Journal of
                    Personality and Social Psychology, 29
                    (1974), 80 - 85.

[Ehrenreich et al 1978]Ehrenreich, Barbara and Deirdre En-
                    glish. For Her Own Good:  150 Years
                    of the Experts' Advice to Women. New
                    York: Anchor Press/Doubleday, 1978.



                        107




                    An account of how the rise of science and
                    pseudo-science in the nineteenth and early
                    twentieth centuries took power away from
                    women, in their roles as healers, mothers,
                    and human beings.

[Epstein 1974]      Epstein,  Cynthia  Fuchs.  "Bringing
                    Women  In:  Rewards,  Punishments,
                    and the Structure of Achievement", in
                    [Kundsin 1973], pages 13-22.

[Ernest 1976]       Ernest, John. "Mathematics and Sex."
                    The American Mathematics Monthly,
                    October 1976, 83:595-615. A good sur-
                    vey of the factors discouraging females
                    from mathematics with an excellent bib-
                    liography.

[Erkut 1983]        Erkut, Sumru. "Exploring Sex Differ-
                    ences in Expectancy, Attribution, and
                    Academic Achievement." Sex Roles: A
                    Journal of Research, 9 (1983) 217 -
                    231. A study of sex differences in how un-
                    dergraduates expected to do on a midterm
                    and to what they attributed any success.

[Ferry et al 1982]  Ferry, Georgina and Jane Moore. "True
                    Confessions of Women in Science." New
                    Scientist 95 (July 1, 1982), 27-30. The
                    fascinating results of this English maga-
                    zine's survey of its female readers.

[Fidell 1975]       Fidell, L. S. "Empirical Verification of
                    Sex Discrimination in Hiring Practices
                    in Psychology," in R. K. Unger and
                    F. L. Denmark, eds., Women: Depen-
                    dent or Independent Variable, Psycho-
                    logical Dimensions: New York, 1975.

[Frank et al 1983]  Frank,  Francine and Frank Anshen.
                    Language and the Sexes. Albany: State
                    University of New York Press, 1983.

[Franklin et al 1981]Franklin, Phyllis, et al. "Sexual and
                    Gender Harassment in the Academy:
                    A  Guide  for  Faculty,  Students  and



                         108




                    Administrators", Commission on the
                    Status of Women in the Profession,
                    The Modern Language Association of
                    America, New York, NY, 1981.


[Frenkel 1990]      Frenkel, Karen A. "Women and Com-
                    puting". Communications of the ACM,
                    November 1990, 34-46. One of two ar-
                    ticles comprising CACM's cover story on
                    women and computing. Has a good bibli-
                    ography.


[Gilbert et al 1983]Gilbert,  Lucia  A.,  June  M.  Gal-
                    lessich,  and  Sherri  L.  Evans.  "Sex
                    of Faculty Role Model and Students'
                    Self-Perceptions of Competency." Sex
                    Roles: A Journal of Research, 9 (1983)
                    597 - 607. Results of a study of the sex
                    of students' role models and the students'
                    perceptions of themselves.


[Goldberg 1968]     Goldberg, Philip. "Are Women Preju-
                    diced Against Women?" Trans-Action,
                    5 (1986), 28 - 80. The original study
                    showing how the sex of the author of a
                    paper influences evaluations of the paper's
                    quality.


[Gornick 1972]      Gornick,         Vivian        and
                    Barbara K. Moran, editors. Women in
                    Sexist Society. New York: Basic Books,
                    1972. A collection of essays, many still rel-
                    evant, on gender inequalities in American
                    society.


[Gornick 1990]      Gornick, Vivian. Women in Science:
                    100 Journeys into the Territory. New
                    York: Touchstone (Simon & Schuster),
                    1990. Short, anecdotal profiles of over a
                    hundred female scientists, most from an
                    earlier generation. I found the book too
                    depressing to read in its entirety. It shows
                    that the situation has changed for the bet-
                    ter.



                        109




[Gries et al 1991]  Gries, David and Dorothy Marsh. "CS
                    Produced 734 Ph.D.s in 1989-90; CE
                    Added 173 for a Total of 907". Com-
                    puting Research News, January 1991, 6
                    - 10. An annual report on the number of
                    men and women earning PhDs and work-
                    ing as professors in computer science and
                    engineering.


[Gross 1991]        Gross, Jane. "Female Surgeon's Quit-
                    ting     Touches     Nerves     at
                    Medical School." The New York Times,
                    July 14, 1991, page 10. A report on the
                    sexism at Stanford Medical School which
                    caused a female neurosurgeon to resign.


[Hacker 1983]       Hacker, Sally L. "Mathematization of
                    Engineering:  Limits on Women and
                    the Field", in Joan Rothschild, editor,
                    Machina ex Dea:  Feminist Perspec-
                    tives on Technology, New York: Perg-
                    amon Press, 1983, pages 38 - 58. Ar-
                    gues convincingly the surprising position
                    that mathematics requirements artificially
                    limit entry into engineering.


[Hall 1982]         Hall, Roberta M., with the assistance
                    of Bernice R. Sandler. "The Classroom
                    Climate:  A Chilly One for Women?"
                    Copyright 1986 by the Project on the
                    Status and Education of Women, Asso-
                    ciation of American Colleges, Washing-
                    ton, DC, 1986. An excellent overview of
                    the problems women face at universities,
                    with a great bibliography.


[Harragan 1987]     Harragan, Betty Lehan. Games Mother
                    Never  Taught  You.  Warner  Books:
                    New York, 1987. The classic guide to
                    "corporate gamesmanship for women". Al-
                    though intended for businesswomen,  it
                    had useful advice for any female profes-
                    sional.



                         110




[Harrigan 1989]     Harrigan, Kristina E. Letters to the
                    Editor. International Herald Tribune,
                    exact date unknown, 1989.


[Harrington 1990]   Harrington, Susan Marie. "Barriers to
                    Women in Undergraduate Computer
                    Science: The Effects of the Computer
                    Environment on the Success and Con-
                    tinuance  of  Female  Students."  PhD
                    Thesis, Division of Teacher Education,
                    University of Oregon, 1990. A study
                    of female undergraduates' computer sci-
                    ence experiences at a large public univer-
                    sity, based on interviews, class records,
                    and the literature. One of its major find-
                    ings is that, although women drop out
                    of the school's computer science program
                    more than men, women outperformed men
                    in most of the required computer science
                    courses, suggesting that their underrepre-
                    sentation was not due to lack of ability.
                    The author can currently be contacted at
                    Columbia Union College, Maryland.


[Hess et al 1985]   Hess, Robert D. and Irene T. Miura.
                    "Gender Differences in Enrollment in
                    Computer Camps and Classes." Sex
                    Roles:   A  Journal  of  Research,  13
                    (1985) 193-203.


[Hofstadter 1986]   Hofstadter,  Douglas R. Metamagical
                    Themas:   Questing  for  Essence  of
                    Mind and Pattern. New York:  Ban-
                    tam Books, 1986. A collection of inter-
                    esting essays, most of which which were
                    published in the Scientific American col-
                    umn of the same name. Two of the chap-
                    ters deal with sexism in language and pro-
                    vided the powerful arguments that first
                    convinced me.


[Holland 1990]      Holland,  Dorothy  C.  and  Margaret
                    A. Eisenhart. Educated in Romance:
                    Woman,  Achievement,  and  College
                    Culture.  The  University  of  Chicago



                        111




                    Press, 1990. Based on a study commis-
                    sioned by the National Institute of Edu-
                    cation, this book describes how the cul-
                    tures at two southern universities encour-
                    ages women to drastically lower their ca-
                    reer ambitions and to instead seek status
                    through boyfriends and husbands.


[Holloway 1990]     Holloway, Marguerite. "Profile: Vive la
                    Difference". Scientific American, Octo-
                    ber 1990, 18 - 42. A profile of psychol-
                    ogist Doreen Kimura, whose research has
                    found a correlation between hormonal lev-
                    els and spatial and verbal abilities.


[Homans 1987]       Homans,  Hilary. "Man-made Myths:
                    The Reality of Being a Woman Scien-
                    tist in the NHS," in Spencer, Anne and
                    David Podmore, editors, In a Man's
                    World:  Essays on Women in Male-
                    dominated Professions. London & New
                    York: Tavistock Publications, 1987. A
                    paper exploring "some of the dominant
                    ideas surrounding women working as sci-
                    entists and technical staff in the National
                    Health Services (NHS)".


[Horner et al 1990] Horner, Blair and Nadya Lawson. "Let-
                    ters to the Editor". The New York
                    Times,  November 29,  1990. A letter
                    from two members of the New York Public
                    Interest Group, one the legislative director
                    and the other with its Education Watch,
                    on how the SAT underpredicts women's
                    performance.


[Horner 1970]       Horner,  Matina  S.  "Femininity  and
                    Successful Achievement:  A Basic In-
                    consistency", in Judith Bardwick, et
                    al, editors, Feminine Personality and
                    Conflict. Belmont,  CA: Brooks/Cole
                    Publishing  Company,  1970.  A paper
                    about Horner's highly-influential research,
                    which showed women's negative feelings
                    toward achievement.



                         112




[Hunt 1991]         Hunt, Marion. "Letters to the Editor".
                    The New York Times, June 19, 1991,
                    page A24.


[Kamen 1990]        Kamen,  Paula.  "Feminism,  a  Dirty
                    Word". The New York Times, Novem-
                    ber 23, 1990, page A37. An opinion col-
                    umn describing the author's experiences
                    as a college journalist:  Once she began
                    writing about sexism, she was labeled a
                    feminist and suspected of hating men and
                    other radical positions.


[Kaschak 1978]      Kaschak,  Ellyn.  "Sex  Bias  in  Stu-
                    dent  Evaluations  of  College  Profes-
                    sors", Psychology of Women Quarterly,
                    2 (1978),  235-242. Describes a study
                    that found that male students rated fe-
                    male professors lower than male professors
                    on the basis of artificial case studies.


[Keith et al 1990]  Keith, Sandra Z. and Philip Keith, ed-
                    itors, Proceedings of the National Con-
                    ference on Women in Mathematics and
                    the Sciences. St. Cloud, MN: St. Cloud
                    University, 1990.


[Kelly 1982]        Kelly, Alison. "Why Girls Don't Do
                    Science." New Scientist 94 (May 20,
                    1982),  497-500.  A  summary  of  bias
                    against girls in science in the classroom
                    and at home.


[Kidder 1982]       Kidder, Tracy. The Soul of a New Ma-
                    chine. New York: Avon, 1982. One of
                    the hacker culture classics, describing the
                    intense effort behind the design of a com-
                    puter at Data General.


[Kierstead et al 1988]Kierstead,  Diane,  Patti  D'Agostino,
                    and Heidi Dill. "Sex Role Stereotyping
                    of College Professors: Bias in Students'
                    Ratings of Instructors", Journal of Ed-
                    ucational Psychology, 80 (1988), 342-
                    344. Further evidence that students judge



                        113




                    female professors more harshly than they
                    do male professors.

[Kiesler et al 1985]Kiesler, Sara, Lee Sproull, and Jacque-
                    lynne S. Eccles. "Pool Halls, Chips, and
                    War Games:  Women in the Culture
                    of Computing". Psychology of Women
                    Quarterly, 9 (1985) 451-462. Presents
                    results from a study of sex-based arcade
                    and home video game usage along with a
                    discussion of the consequences.

[Koblitz 1990]      Koblitz, Neal. "Are Student Ratings
                    Unfair to Women?"  Newsletter of the
                    Association for Women in Mathemat-
                    ics, September - October 1990. An in-
                    formative survey of studies of bias in stu-
                    dent ratings of professors.

[Komisar 1972]      Komisar, Lucy. "The Image of Woman
                    in  Advertising,"  in  [Gornick 1990,
                    pages 304-317]. A discussion of the bi-
                    ased manner in which females were pre-
                    sented in advertising twenty years ago.
                    While some of the ads described would not
                    appear today, many can still be seen.

[Kramer et al 1990] Kramer,
                    Pamela E. and Sheila Lehman. "Mis-
                    measuring Women: A Critique of Re-
                    search on Computer Ability and Avoid-
                    ance." Signs:  Journal of Women in
                    Culture and Society 16 (1990) 158 -
                    172.

[Kundsin 1973]      Kundsin, Ruth B., editor. Women and
                    Success:  The  Anatomy  of  Achieve-
                    ment. New York:  William Morrow &
                    Company, 1974. Originally published as
                    an annal of the New York Academy of Sci-
                    ences under the title Successful Women
                    in the Sciences: An Analysis of Determi-
                    nants, this book provides autobiographical
                    sketches of a dozen successful female scien-
                    tists and essays on the topics of family at-
                    titudes, the impact of education, economic



                         114




                    factors, determinants in individual life ex-
                    periences, and related problems of pro-
                    fessional women. Although nearly twenty
                    years old, many of the essays are still valu-
                    able.


[Lakoff 1975]       Lakoff, Robin. Language and Woman's
                    Place. Harper & Row, Publishers: New
                    York, 1975. A pioneering work on how
                    women's lower status is reflected by the
                    language women speak and in which they
                    are spoken of.


[LaPlante 1989]     LaPlante, Alice. Sexist Images Persist
                    at Comdex. Infoworld, November 27,
                    1989, page 58. A trade journal article de-
                    scribing the sexism displayed at one of the
                    industry's most important trade shows.


[Lattin 1984]       Lattin,  Patricia Hopkins. "Academic
                    women, affirmative action, and middle-
                    America  in  the  eighties",  in  Resa
                    L. Dudovitz, ed., Women in Academe.
                    Oxford: Pergamon Press, 1984, pages
                    223 - 230.


[Leveson 1989]      Leveson, Nancy. "Women in Computer
                    Science:  A Report of the NSF CISE
                    Cross-Disciplinary Activities Advisory
                    Commit-
                    tee". Recommendations to the National
                    Science Foundation for ways to encour-
                    age women, describing a variety of ap-
                    proaches. Can be obtained by anonymous
                    ftp at ics.uci.edu:pub/nancy/nsf.report.


[Leveson 1990]      Leveson, Nancy. "Educational Pipeline
                    Issues  for  Women."  Computing  Re-
                    search News, October 1990 and Jan-
                    uary 1991. A report on women in different
                    stages of the "pipeline", providing reasons
                    they drop out and suggestions for retain-
                    ing them. Can be obtained by anonymous
                    ftp at ics.uci.edu:pub/nancy/snowbird.



                        115




[Levy 1984]         Levy, Steven. Hackers:  Heroes of the
                    Computer Revolution. New York: An-
                    chor Press/Doubleday,  1984. A com-
                    puter hacker classic, describing the early
                    hackers at MIT and then the Silicon Val-
                    ley hackers, capturing the intensity of the
                    hacking culture.


[Lewin 1990]        Lewin, Tamar. "Winner of Sex Bias
                    Suit Set to Enter Next Arena." The
                    New York Times, May 19, 1990, page
                    7. A description of a lawsuit in which a
                    court ordered Price Waterhouse to provide
                    a partnership to Ann Hopkins, who was
                    found to have been denied because of her
                    unfeminine personality.


[Lockheed 1985]     Lockheed, Marlaine E. "Women, Girls,
                    and Computers:  A First Look at the
                    Evidence". Sex Roles: A Journal of Re-
                    search, 13 (1985) 115-122. Part of a
                    special issue on sex-related computer use,
                    summarizing a number of studies.


[McNeil 1991]       McNeil,  Donald  G.,  Jr.  "Should
                    Women Be Sent Into Combat?"  The
                    New York Times, July 21, 1991, page
                    E3.  A summary of the arguments for
                    against allowing women to serve in com-
                    bat  positions.  It  includes  the  statistic
                    that, even with pregnancy leave, enlisted
                    women spend less time off work than en-
                    listed men.


[MTQ 1989A]         MacTech  Quarterly,  Summer,  1989.
                    Volume 1, number 2. In this issue of
                    the magazine (now called MacTech Jour-
                    nal), the editor announced the magazine's
                    policy of using "she" as the default third-
                    person pronoun.


[MTQ 1989B]         MacTech Quarterly, Fall, 1989. Volume
                    1, number 3. This issue printed letters re-
                    acting to its progressive grammar policy
                    announced in the previous issue and had



                         116




                    an article on biases women face in com-
                    puter science.


[Markoff 1989]      Markoff,       John.      "Hacker's
                    World:  Woman-Unfriendly?"   Inter-
                    national Herald Tribune, February 4,
                    1989. A brief article describing women's
                    discomfort with the hacker environment.


[Marriott 1991]     Marriott,  Michael.  "Beyond  `Yuck'
                    for Girls in Science." The New York
                    Times, June 15, 1991, page unknown.
                    A summary of a study on how to teach
                    science more effectively to girls.


[Martin 1984]       Martin, Elaine, "Power and Author-
                    ity in the Classroom:  Sexist Stereo-
                    types in Teaching Evaluations," Jour-
                    nal of Women in Culture and Soci-
                    ety, 9 (1984), 482-492. A write-up of
                    an experiment that found that college
                    students judged female professors more
                    harshly than they did male professors.


[MIT 1983]          "Barriers  to  Equality  in  Academia:
                    Women in Computer Science at MIT".
                    Prepared by female graduate students
                    and research staff in the Laboratory
                    for Computer Science and the Artifi-
                    cial Intelligence Laboratory at MIT. An
                    early influential report describing prob-
                    lems women encountered at MIT's Labo-
                    ratory for Computer Science and Artificial
                    Intelligence Laboratory.


[MIT 1987]          Presidential  Committee  on  Women
                    Students Interests, "Survey of Gradu-
                    ate Students," Cambridge, MA: MIT,
                    1987. A survey which found that many
                    female graduate students at MIT felt they
                    encountered significant barriers due to
                    their sex.


[Mednick et al 1975]Mednick, Martha Tamara Shuch, San-
                    dra Schwartz Tangri, and Lois Wladis



                        117




                    Hoffman, editors. Women and Achieve-
                    ment. New York:  Hemisphere Pub-
                    lishing  Corporation  (John  Wiley  &
                    Sons), 1975. A collection of essays study-
                    ing women's uneasiness with achievement.


[Miller et al 1980] Miller, Casey and Kate Swift, Words
                    and Women. New York:  Doubleday,
                    Anchor Press, 1977.


[Ott 1975]          Ott, Mary. "Female Engineering Stu-
                    dents  ---  Attitudes,  Characteristics,
                    Expectations, Responses to Engineer-
                    ing Education." Final report for NSF
                    grant #SMI-75-18013A01. ERIC Doc-
                    ument #ED 160400.


[Paludi et al 1983] Paludi,      Michele     A.     and
                    William D. Bauer. "Goldberg Revis-
                    ited:  What's in an Author's Name".
                    Sex Roles:  A Journal of Research, 9
                    (1983) 387 - 390. Results of a study that
                    asked male and female college students to
                    rate articles on a range of subjects, where
                    the author's name was male, female, or
                    ambiguous. Both male and female sub-
                    jects rated the papers with the male au-
                    thor highest and the female author lowest.


[Paludi et al 1985] Paludi, Michele A. and Lisa A. Strayer,
                    "What's in an Author's Name?  Dif-
                    ferent Evaluations of Performance as
                    a Function of Author's Name,"  Sex
                    Roles:   A  Journal  of  Research,  12
                    (1985) 353 - 361.


[Pearl et al 1990]  Pearl, Amy, Martha E. Pollack, Eve
                    Riskin, Becky Thomas, Elizabeth Wolf,
                    and  Alice  Wu.  "Becoming  a  Com-
                    puter Scientist." Communications of
                    the ACM, November 1990, 47 - 57.
                    The first report of the newly-created ACM
                    Committee on the Status of Women and
                    Minorities in Computer Science, in an is-
                    sue featuring "Women and Computing".



                         118




                    An excellent short survey of the topic,
                    with a good bibliography.


[Perl 1978]         Perl, Teri. Math Equals:  Biographies
                    of Women Mathematicians + Related
                    Activities. Addison-Wesley, 1978. A set
                    of biographical sketches of female mathe-
                    maticians and mathematical puzzles and
                    concepts designed to encourage girls to
                    study math.


[Persing 1978]      Persing,  Bobbye  Sorrels.  The  Non-
                    sexist Communicator. East Elmhurst,
                    New York: Communication Dynamics
                    Press, 1978. Strongly argues avoiding tra-
                    ditional biased English and provides some
                    useful guidelines for improvement.


[Petersen 1980]     Petersen,  Anne  C.  "Biopsychosocial
                    Processes in the Development of Sex-
                    related Differences", in Jacquelynne E.
                    Parsons, editor, The Psychobiology of
                    Sex Differences and Sex Roles. Wash-
                    ington:  Hemisphere Publishing Com-
                    pany, 1980, pages 31-56.


[Pomerleau et al 1990]Pomerleau,  Andree,  Daniel  Bolduc,
                    Gerard Malcuit, and Louise Cossette.
                    "Pink or Blue:  Environmental Gen-
                    der Stereotypes in the First Two Years
                    of Life". Sex Roles: A Journal of Re-
                    search, 22 (1990) 359-367. A survey of
                    research on the difference of toys given
                    to and play behavior encouraged in young
                    boys and girls, also describing the authors'
                    research in the difference of physical envi-
                    ronments (clothing, room decorations, and
                    toys) in infants' rooms.


[Pringle 1989]      Pringle,  Rosemary.  Secretaries  Talk:
                    Sexuality, Power and Work. New York:
                    Verso.  Based  on  interviews  at  offices
                    and secretarial schools in Australia, this
                    book explores the sexual dynamics of the
                    secretary-boss relationship.



                        119




[Rheingold et al 1975]Rheingold, H. L. and K. V. Cook. "The
                    Contents of Boys' and Girls' Rooms as
                    an Index of Parents' Behavior". Child
                    Development, 46 (1975), 445-463. A
                    study of the toys possessed by children
                    from one to six years old, revealing sub-
                    stantial sex differences.

[Rowe 1981]         Rowe, Mary P. "Dealing with Sexual
                    Harassment".  Harvard  Business  Re-
                    view, May-June 1981, 42 - 47. Advice
                    by the special assistant to the president
                    of MIT to managers on how to deal with
                    sexual harassment of employees.

[Rowe 1985]         Rowe, Mary P. "Dealing with Harass-
                    ment Concerns". Transcript of a talk
                    given at Yale University on May 10,
                    1985. Copies are available through the
                    Office  for  Women  in  Medicine,  333
                    Cedar Street, New Haven, CT 06510
                    (203)-785-4680. A talk by the MIT om-
                    budsperson on her experience in the job
                    and advice about dealing with harassment
                    concerns.

[Rowe 1990]         Rowe,  Mary P. "Barriers to Equal-
                    ity:  The Power of Subtle Discrimi-
                    nation to Maintain Unequal Oppor-
                    tunity". Employee Responsibilities and
                    Rights Journal, Vol. 3, No. 2, 1990,
                    pages 153 - 163. An article arguing that
                    "subtle discrimination is now the principal
                    scaffolding for segregation in the United
                    States".

[Sadker et al 1985] Sadker, Myra and David Sadker. "Sex-
                    ism in the Schoolroom of the 80's".
                    Psychology Today, March 1985.

[Sandler 1986]      Sandler,  Bernice R.,  with the assis-
                    tance of Roberta M. Hall. "The Cam-
                    pus  Climate  Revisited:   Chilly  for
                    Women Faculty, Administrators, and
                    Graduate Students". Copyright 1986
                    by  the  Project  on  the  Status  and



                         120




                    Education of Women, Association of
                    American Colleges, Washington, DC,
                    1986. A report describing the subtle and
                    less-subtle ways in which the university
                    provides an unpleasant environment for
                    women.


[Sandler 1988]      Sandler, Bernice R. "The Classroom
                    Climate:   Chilly  for  Women?"   in
                    Deneef, et al, editors, The Academic
                    Handbook, Durham:  Duke University
                    Press,  1988,  pages 146-152. A good
                    overview of research on subtle subcon-
                    scious bias, although it does not contain
                    references.


[Schwartz et al 1985]Schwartz, L. A. and W. T. Markham.
                    "Sex Stereotyping in Children's Toy
                    Advertisements". Sex Roles:  A Jour-
                    nal of Research, 12 (1985) 157-170.


[Selvin 1991]       Selvin, Paul. "Does the Harrison Case
                    Reveal  Sexism  in  Math?"   Science
                    252 (June 28, 1991), 1781-1783. An
                    account of the controversy surrounding
                    Berkeley's denial of tenure to mathemati-
                    cian Jenny Harrison, who has filed a sexual
                    discrimination suit. The article also con-
                    tains statistics on the scarcity of female
                    mathematics professors:  At the top ten
                    universities, 4 out of 303 tenured profes-
                    sors are female, as are 1 out of 86 un-
                    tenured professors.


[Sidner 1980]       Sidner,  Candace  L.  "On  Being  a
                    Woman Student at MIT or How to
                    Miss the Stumbling Blocks in Graduate
                    Education." Unpublished report, 1980.


[Simeone 1987]      Simeone,      Angela.     Academic
                    Women:  Working Towards Equality.
                    Massachusetts: Bergin & Garvey Pub-
                    lishers, Inc., 1987. A good overview of
                    the situation for female graduate students
                    and faculty.



                        121




[Sproull et al 1987]Sproull, Lee, Sara Kiesler, and David
                    Zubrow. "Encountering an Alien Cul-
                    ture,"  in  Kiesler,  Sara  B.  and  Lee
                    S.  Sproull,   eds.,   Computing  and
                    Change on Campus. Cambridge, Eng-
                    land:   Cambridge  University  Press,
                    1987, pages 173-194. Describes college
                    students' reactions to their first computer
                    programming course.

[Stern et al 1989]  Stern, Marilyn and Katherine Hilde-
                    brandt Karraker. "Sex Stereotyping of
                    Infants: A Review of Gender Labeling
                    Studies". Sex Roles: A Journal of Re-
                    search, 20 (1989) 501-522.

[Stewart et al 1989]Stewart,  Elizabeth,  Nancy  Hutchin-
                    son, Peter Hemmingway, and Fred Bes-
                    sai. "The Effects of Student Gender,
                    Race, and Achievement on Career Ex-
                    ploration Advice Given by Canadian
                    Preservice  Teachers".  Sex  Roles:  A
                    Journal of Research, 21 (1989) 247-
                    262.

[Tidwell 1990]      Tidwell, Jenifer. "Hackers in the Gar-
                    den: A Case Study of Women in Com-
                    puter Engineering", unpublished, 1990.
                    A report on how the environment in the
                    MIT Media Lab, while not intentionally
                    sexist, was less hospitable to women.

[Top 1991]          Top, Titia J. "Sex Bias in the Evalu-
                    ation of Performance in the Scientific,
                    Artistic, and Literary Professions:  A
                    Review". Sex Roles: A Journal of Re-
                    search, 24 (1991) 73 - 106. Criticism of
                    some studies that have found bias in eval-
                    uations of work, depending on whether the
                    judge thought the author male or female.

[Turkle 1984]       Turkle, Sherry. The Second Self: Com-
                    puters  and  the  Human  Spirit.  New
                    York:  Simon and Schuster, 1984. A
                    feminist classic on individuals' reactions to
                    computers.



                         122




[Turkle et al 1990] Turkle, Sherry and Seymour Papert.
                    "Epistemological Pluralism: Styles and
                    Voices within the Computer Culture".
                    Signs:  Journal of Women in Culture
                    and Society, 16 (1990), 128 - 157. A pa-
                    per arguing that computer programmers
                    use a variety of styles and that educa-
                    tors should not force a single programming
                    model on all students.


[Van Nostrand 1990] Van Nostrand, Catharine Herr. "Gen-
                    der-Responsible Leadership:  Do Your
                    Teaching Methods Empower Women?"
                    in [Keith et al 1990, pages 186 - 191].
                    A manual of the same title is to be pub-
                    lished by Sage Publications, Inc., in Spring
                    1991. Direct inquiries, with a SASE, to
                    the author at: 36854 Winnebago Road, St.
                    Cloud, MN 56303.


[Weinraub et al 1983]Weinraub,  Marsha  and  Lynda  M.
                    Brown. "The Development of Sex-Role
                    Stereotypes in Children: Crushing Re-
                    alities" in Franks and Rothblum, edi-
                    tors, The Stereotyping of Women: Its
                    Effects on Mental Health, New York:
                    Springer Publishing Company,  1983,
                    pages 30-58.


[Widnall 1988]      Widnall, Sheila E. "AAAS Presiden-
                    tial Lecture: Voices from the Pipeline".
                    Science  241  (September  30,  1988),
                    1740 - 1745. A discussion, with quanti-
                    tative data, of the rate at which male and
                    female students drop out of the study of
                    science and engineering, focusing on why
                    women leave more frequently.


[Wolpert et al 1988]Wolpert, Lewis and Alison Richards. A
                    Passion for Science. Oxford:  Oxford
                    University Press, 1988. A collection of
                    essays on how scientists view their work,
                    intending to dispel the myth that science
                    is cold and dry.



                        123




[Zappert et al 1984]Zappert,  Laraine  T.  and  Kendyll
                    Stansbury.  "A  Comparative  Analy-
                    sis  of  Men  and  Women  in  Gradu-
                    ate Programs in Science, Engineering
                    and Medicine at Stanford University."
                    Working Papers, Institute for Research
                    on Women and Gender, Stanford Uni-
                    versity, 1985. Single copies are available
                    at no cost from the Institute for Research
                    on Women and Gender, Stanford, Univer-
                    sity (415-723-1994).



                         124
